Reciprocating Compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Reciprocating compressors High performance, high efficiency, high reliability, and low maintenance reciprocating compressors for process industry and decarbonization As a leading supplier of reciprocating compressors, our extensive Dresser-Rand portfolio of slow speed process reciprocating compressors and medium to high-speed separable units enable us to offer products for applications across both process and decarbonization industries. Reciprocating compressors - product information Our reciprocating compressors are used in a wide range of applications, helping customers across the globe through their energy transition , increasing efficiency and lowering emissions step by step. Applications include: Upstream: LNG (boil-off gas), reinjection, CO2 / EOR , gathering, export / sales gas, fuel gas Midstream: Gas pipeline transmission, gas storage / withdrawal, gas processing Downstream: Hydrocracking, hydrotreating, reforming, hydrogen plants, off gas receovery, fertilizer syngas, polyethylene, biodiesel Decarbonization: Green H2 production, H2 pipeline, H2 storage, H2 liquefaction, green ammonia, green methanol , CO2 capture / pipeline / storage Process reciprocating compressor (API 618) Our process reciprocating compressors are available with up to 10 crank throws, as single-throw or balanced-opposed configurations. We custom engineer every unit by designing each cylinder and valve, and select other components to meet your specific operating requirements. Our factory experts check all critical clearances and dimensions, and perform inspections and tests to prevent installation problems. The result is a reciprocating compressor that meets or exceeds client specifications, while delivering unmatched efficiency and reliability. BDC-18H3 (45,000 HP / 450 RPM) Read more HHE-VL (22,500 HP / 450 RPM) Read more HHE-VG (10,630 HP / 450 RPM) Read more BDC-12H (8,225 HP / 600 RPM) Read more HHE-VB (5,000 HP / 600 RPM) Read more HHE-FB (2,250 HP / 600 RPM) Read more HSE (1,000 HP / 650 RPM) Read more PHE (240 HP / 729 RPM) Read more 11-ESH (180 HP / 450 RPM) Read more 7-ESH (70 HP / 600 RPM) Read more High and medium speed reciprocating compressors (ISO 13631 / API 11P) With the most versatile compressor lineup on the market and a reputation for serving standard applications and the most demanding jobs (high pressure, CO₂, sour and acid gases, and floating applications), we cover virtually every application. This class of reciprocating compressors is designed to meet ISO 13631 with options to meet ISO 13707, or API 618 specifications. Our offering includes three different models with horsepower (HP) ranges up to 7,800 HP (5,816 kW), allowable rod loads up to 75,000 PSI (333kn), rated maximum speeds up to 1,500 RPM, and pressures up to 10,000 PSIG. Click on the model types below to learn more about our best in class. HOSS (9,950 HP / 1,500 RPM) Read more HOS (6,000 HP / 1,500 RPM) Read more MOS (4,400 HP / 1,500 RPM) Read more Further information for high speed reciprocating compressors Authorized resellers Click here Authorized parts resellers Click here Package and parts distributor support data Click here Selection / performance prediction programme Click here Reciprocating compressor valves and capacity control Capacity control and compressor valve mechanisms are essential for optimizing the efficiency and functionality of reciprocating compressors. These mechanisms ensure that the compressor operates at the optimal level required by varying conditions, thereby conserving energy and reducing wear and tear. Valves and capacity control Aftermarket modernizations and upgrades We offer the state-of-the-art reciprocating compressor upgrades and modernizations to help improve the reliability and availability of your equipment. Modernizations and upgrades iFlow real-time continuous monitoring system Gas engine solutions Revitalize your gas engine Enhancing the performance of your gas engine, regardless of its OEM, is not just a service, it's a commitment to excellence. With a focus on reliability, efficiency, turnkey solutions and responsiveness, we at Siemens Energy take pride in being your trusted partner throughout your engine's entire lifecycle. From modernizations and upgrades, scheduled overhauls, and repairs to spare parts, our global team of highly qualified specialists is dedicated to delivering dependable and on-going support. Gas engine solutions Reciprocating compressors for hydrogen applications We have installed over 2 million horsepower of reciprocating compression in hydrogen rich services. With extensive experience and a long list of project references, our process and high speed reciprocating compressors can be tailored for your specific project designs. Our compressors are used primarily for H₂ product, tail gas, feed gas and H₂ make up applications, as well as H₂ pipelines and storage. Reduce your CAPEX and experience high reliability and dependable service from our hydrogen compressor portfolio. Markets: Process industries Refining H₂ fuel gas boosting (H₂ rich fuel with reduced CO₂ emissions from our gas turbines) H₂ pipelines H₂ boosting after electrolysis system H₂ storage Find out more about hydrogen compressors Latest articles Painted Post, a global epicenter for gas compression, engineering, manufacturing and servicing In the upstate New York village of Painted Post, Siemens Energy operates a modern, purpose-built 44-acre plant where reciprocating gas compressors are designed, manufactured, and serviced. Read more New compressor solutions for emerging hydrogen applications: The case for hybrid designs Compressors represent an essential part of the emerging hydrogen value chain and are needed to efficiently transport and store hydrogen from the production source to it's point of end-use. Read more Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on reciprocating compressors What is a reciprocating compressor? A reciprocating compressor is a type of positive displacement compressor that uses pistons driven by a crankshaft to deliver gases at high pressure. What is the difference between centrifugal and reciprocating compressors? Centrifugal compressors use a rotating impeller to add velocity to the gas and then convert this velocity into pressure (dynamic compression). In contrast, reciprocating compressors use pistons to compress the gas in a cylinder (positive compression). What are the disadvantages of reciprocating compressors? A disadvantage of reciprocating compressors includes higher maintenance requirements due to multiple moving components with wearing surfaces. How does a reciprocating compressor operate? A reciprocating compressor operates by using a piston within a cylinder to compress the gas. The piston moves back and forth, driven by crankshaft, drawing in gas during the intake cycle then compressing the gas when piston changes direction. What opens and closes the valves in a reciprocating compressor? The valves in a reciprocating compressor operate automatically in response to pressure differences and are designed to open and close at precise times during the piston's movement. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025