Gas Engine Solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Gas engine solutions Revitalize your gas engine Enhancing the performance of your gas engine, regardless of its OEM, is not just a service, it's a commitment to excellence. With a focus on reliability, efficiency, turnkey solutions and responsiveness, we at Siemens Energy take pride in being your trusted partner throughout your engine's entire lifecycle. From modernizations and upgrades, scheduled overhauls, and repairs to spare parts, our global team of highly qualified specialists is dedicated to delivering dependable and on-going support. Lowering emissions for a sustainable future At Siemens Energy, we are committed to improving air quality and protecting the environment with every solution we provide. We have the flexibility to provide manpower requirements that meet customer deadlines, and the purchasing power to manage the supply base and secure reduced lead-times with competitive costs. Our selection of equipment upgrades is designed to lower engine emissions significantly and improve the performance of both engines and compressors. High Pressure Fuel injection (HPFi) Provides a cost-effective upgrade of fuel / gas control for direct-injected, natural gas-fired industrial engines. iBALANCE Real-time, continuous engine monitoring system designed for large-bore, two and four-stroke natural gas reciprocating engines. COMPLi catalytic systems Converts unwanted components like CO, NOx, and hydrocarbons into CO 2 and N 2 as exhaust gas passes through the catalyst. Port4 electronic fuel injection system Provides exact control of the fuel gas to deliver an optimally mixed air/fuel charge that produces combustion performance and emissions characteristics equivalent to well-designed, state-of-the-art IC engines. Electronic Pre-Chamber injector (EPCi) Provides an electro-magnet to force the check valve open and closed by spring force instead of relying on the standard pressure differential-based mechanical check valve. SIP head conversion Prevents combustion issues and cylinder peak firing pressure balancing complications due to differing pre-chamber volumes and head design. High Pressure injection Control (HPiC) Provides a single, engine-mounted module that can be used to control all aspects of the engine's operations. Turbocharger upgrade Redesigned key features to increase overall turbocharger performance efficiency. Driving progress together for "Good Neighbor" Through acquired technology and years of investment in the integral gas engine product line, we are well-equipped in supporting you as you continue your efforts to meet the Clean Air Act's "Good Neighbor" requirements. We are focused on providing cost-effective, low emissions solutions that make a difference in your environment compliance journey towards a more sustainable future. Our unmatched expertise is evident through proven technology that we have been implementing for over 25 years. We have a portfolio of systems that range in complexity from our lean engine conversion through our Port4 and High-Pressure Fuel injection (HPFi) system. Our technologies, coupled with our mechanical and turbocharger upgrades allow customized solutions to meet your unique requirements. Download our interactive pdf here Webinar: Bridging gas engine expertise with 'Good Neighbor' Watch our webinar In our on-demand webinar discover how we, at Siemens Energy, are a good partner for 'Good Neighbor' with our real-world examples of how our solutions reduce emissions and improve efficiency, while meeting regulations. View now Power end upgrades for gas engines Our cutting-edge enhancements target the mechanical power-producing components of your engine, elevating its potential to new heights. Our upgrade offerings are meticulously planned and installed while considering the engine's design, intended use, and potential impact on other components. Flywheel barring rigs LECM upgrade kit Oil pump upgrade Warehouse on Wheels (WOW) Vintage frame replacement In-Pulse II - obsolescence iBalance g1 / iFlow g1 Methane slip reduction Compressor end upgrades for gas engines Our extensive state-of-the-art reciprocating compressor end modernizations and upgrades help improve the reliability and availability of your equipment. Learn more Compressor and gas engine services for North America Discover the exceptional capabilities and flexible service solutions provided by our North American compression team. Latest articles Ensuring compliance with the EPA's Good Neighbor ruling Retrofit options for reciprocating gas engines Read more Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025