Services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Energy service solutions We support companies and countries to reduce emissions across the energy landscape – for a more reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy system Moving towards net zero with a holistic portfolio of energy services The global push towards net zero emissions requires a fundamental shift in how we produce and consume energy. However, the path to decarbonization is complex. Rising energy demand, the imperative of affordable energy, and the simultaneous evolution of various energy system components create significant challenges. We partner with our customers to navigate these complexities, offering a holistic portfolio of energy services designed to drive sustainable progress. Our solutions facilitate a step-by-step approach to energy transition, ensuring a reliable and secure energy future. Contact us Explore our service solutions Power Transmission service solutions Discover our service offerings for high-voltage products, systems and solutions. Read more Power plant conversion solutions Get on the road to a decarbonized future by converting your brownfield power plant. Read more Control system service Benefit from holistic plant maintenance with our power plant automation systems services Read more Marine services Stay safe while navigating open seas with our service solutions Read more Compressor modernizations and upgrades Explore our compressor modernizations and upgrades to minimize downtime and maximize productivity. Read more Services for industries Comprehensive lifecycle services for best-in-class operation and maintenance Read more Powering your success: Customer-driven service excellence At Siemens Energy, driving service excellence is a top priority. We analyze performance data and value your feedback to pinpoint areas for improvement. Your insights are crucial in shaping our service delivery, ensuring we meet and exceed your expectations. To maximize your operational efficiency, we utilize advanced analytics for predictive maintenance, minimizing disruptions and maximizing uptime. By consistently refining our service processes and focusing on your specific needs, we aim to build lasting partnerships and deliver exceptional, reliable value that powers your success. Energy transition in action with energy service solutions Discover how we are empowering the global power industry to navigate the energy transition with our service solutions. December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm His job saves lives. Alexandre Costa has spent decades working as a
safety technician, among dangerous chemicals, flammable gases, and
cranes lifting massive machines. The key to accident prevention?
Alexandre tells us why the company always focuses on people first. by
							 Alexandre Costa 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA Naturgy has revolutionized its renewable energy operations by implementing an advanced SCADA system. This solution ensures transparency, flexibility, and availability, enabling seamless monitoring and scaling of their expanding wind and solar farms. With this technology, Naturgy is ready to meet its growth goals to contribute to the energy transition. At the same time, it remains dedicated to being environmentally responsible. Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq In a groundbreaking initiative to address Iraq's pressing energy needs, Siemens Energy partnership with the Ministry of Electricity in Iraq is significantly boosting the country's power capacity. September 30, 2023 5 min read High Desert Power Plant: Empowering California Resilient power generation includes lowering emissions, increasing output, and improving efficiency.  Turbine upgrades at the High Desert power plant in California show how, step by step, energy companies like Middle River Power can decarbonize their operations and begin the process of energy transition. February 15, 2024 7 min read Power transformers, born in the USA The reliability and resilience of the U.S. electric grid are vital for both energy and national security. Large power transformers (LPTs) are critical components, but currently more than 80 percent are imported, with lead times of up to five years. In response to this challenge, Siemens Energy is expanding its manufacturing and service operations in Charlotte, North Carolina. by
							Jean-Cosme Delaloye November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey Discover the dynamic Field Service Engineer role at Siemens Energy. Get insights and expert advice for joining our innovative team. by
							Courtney Kerscher Customer Energy Portal We are committed to transparent and responsive communication, keeping you informed every step of the way. The Customer Energy Portal provides access to exclusive information tailored to your unit. CEP log-in Contact us Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to an installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Power-to-X and e-fuels Power distribution Power transmission Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Other Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Our service overview Consultancy and advisory services Control system services for power generation Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repair and maintenance Service programs Spare parts Sustainability certification