SIPAPER Drive Systems Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SIPAPER Drive Systems Driving the performance and efficiency of paper productions to the max The paper industry is facing challenges that could not be more contradictory. While investment budgets are under constant pressure, customers all over the world are demanding product quality that's virtually impossible to achieve using outdated technology. At the same time, continuously growing expenses for energy and raw materials are dramatically increasing cost pressures, while the competition is getting more and more aggressive. To master these challenges, we've developed innovative drive solutions for paper mills, finishing machines, slitter winders, and rewinders: SIPAPER Drives APL and SIPAPER Winder APL simplify operations, optimize diagnostic capabilities, meet the highest safety standards, maximize efficiency, and minimize maintenance costs. Contact us Reduce power requirements with highly efficient drive systems If the product quality demanded in international competition can't be achieved with existing technologies, budgets are under cost pressure, and the cost of energy and raw materials are increasing, there's only one solution that makes sense: increase system performance with specific investments in your control technology and in modern, energy-efficient drive technology. Innovative drive solutions for the paper industry Our innovative drive solutions SIPAPER Drives APL and SIPAPER Winder APL are made to tackle the challenges of the paper industry. The modules are based on SIMATIC PCS 7, the leading process control system worldwide, which perfectly integrates the functionality of the drives to create a powerful system with the highest availability. The automation controller ensures the functionality of rapid digital control and calculation tasks for the drives. The operator interface is available as a high-end operator station in server-client or stand-alone architecture for control and monitoring, including comprehensive fault diagnostics. Panels provide a user-friendly solution for local operation. Everything under control: for more productivity With our proven and precisely coordinated components and standardized technology modules, you can also integrate higher-value control functions with minimum engineering effort. And with the industry-specific control and diagnostic functions of SIPAPER Drives APL and SIPAPER Winder APL, you'll also benefit from high-availability paper production with optimal quality across all plant components, from the paper machine to the finishing machine and reel slitter. SIPAPER Safety Integrated is an integral part of SIPAPER Drives APL and SIPAPER Winder APL, which complies with all legal safety requirements as standard. Sipade Drive Apl SIPAPER Drives APL for sectional drive systems optimizes process observation and monitoring Innovative drive solution for sectional drive systems in the paper industry Achieving consistent paper quality with continuously increasing throughput and a greater diversity of grades are central challenges for the pulp and paper industry. To meet these challenges, the functional modules of the Advanced Process Library of SIPAPER Drives APL offer open-ended, modular drive solutions. The range of applications of SIPAPER Drives APL extends from partial modernization to complete turnkey solutions. Whether it’s through improved automation on the basis of SIMATIC PCS 7 or by using more energy-efficient SINAMICS drives – with SIPAPER Drives APL, you can bring your plants up to peak performance. And if your primary goal is to improve the energy efficiency of your plant, SIPAPER Drives APL – with gearless drives coupled directly to the machine – provides you with a solution that also minimizes maintenance costs. Your advantages Energy-efficient system design optimized to prevent system perturbation Reliable, technologically advanced components Modular construction, scalable and expandable Highest operating reliability and availability Low spare part and maintenance requirements More effective observation and monitoring of processes Highly dynamic characteristics and control accuracy of modern three-phase motors Maximum availability and optimal control quality thanks to industry-specific control and diagnostic functions Significantly reduced risk of web breaks Proven components, optimal availability Global service from a single source throughout the entire lifecycle First standardized safety solution to fulfill the demanding requirements of EN 1034 Sipade Winder Apl SIPAPER Winder APL for slitter winders and rewinders Modular drive solution for slitter winders and rewinders for the paper industry SIPAPER Winder APL is an intelligent, modular solution that offers you the opportunity to bring your finishing machines and reel slitters up to peak performance and efficiency. Thanks to highly developed technologies, the modular system offers you maximum flexibility with everything from partial modernization to complete turnkey solutions, from simple rewinders to complex reel slitters and from long-serving, proven winders to high-end machines of the latest generation. Your advantages Energy-efficient system design optimized to prevent system perturbation Reliable, technologically advanced components Modular construction, scalable and expandable Highest operating reliability and availability Low spare part and maintenance requirements Increased throughput, fewer web breaks Identical software platform for paper machines, coating machines, and finishing machines Uniform control system for drives, power, and process control Proven components, optimal availability Global service from a single source throughout the entire lifecycle First standardized safety solution to fulfill the demanding requirements of EN 1034 FLENDER gear units for SIPAPER To thrive in a market with growing costs, shrinking margins, and a high quality demand, FLENDER gear units for SIPAPER, seamlessly coordinated with the other SIPAPER components, play a key role. FLENDER drive technology is legendary for its reliability. Over 400,000 gear units around the globe have been reliably operating for decades. With experience from over six decades of designing and building more than 1,400 complete paper machine drives worldwide, we offer you standard and customized FLENDER gear units for every application in your pulp and paper production. Go to FLENDER gear units Fulfill safety requirements the smart way The fiber industry involves extremely complex workflows, and the drive technology can't afford to have any weak points. The utmost emphasis is placed on minimizing potential risks for humans, plants, and the environment using technical resources, with no negative impacts on the production process. That's why safety is an essential aspect of drive systems. Our solution for the safety of your drive: SIPAPER Safety Integrated. Safety for your drives in accordance with EN 1034, thanks to SIPAPER Safety Integrated Using a patent-pending procedure, SIPAPER Safety Integrated offers you the solution to meet the terms of European Union Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC and all EN 1034 requirements with no additional hardware: seamlessly integrated safety technology embedded in the drive automation. The solution is implemented in the proven fail-safe control unit S7-410. PROFIsafe is implemented for fail-safe communication with the SINAMICS frequency converters. By offering Safe Limited Speed (SLS) using standard components, easy selection of operating modes at operator panels and WinCC stations, and integrated diagnostics via the existing operating system, with SIPAPER Safety Integrated you're ideally prepared for a safe operation. SIPAPER Safety Integrated is an integral part of our proven, future-proof SIPAPER Drives APL and SIPAPER Winder APL drive solutions. Innovative services for the digital future of industry Our Industry Services help make your machines and plants more profitable and efficient throughout their entire lifecycle, and allow you to exploit the opportunities of digitalization while reducing your total cost of ownership. Digital services More productivity – thanks to perfectly tailored solutions With our SIPAPER solutions we help to ensure success in the pulp and paper industry – worldwide. Fripa, Miltenberg, Germany One company to meet all requirements for automation technology High availability with minimized energy consumption Reliable customer service for the entire lifecycle Watch the video Your drives are our concerns Any questions about drive technology? Let our fiber industry experts help you to find the optimal solution for your specific requirements. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025