Siemens to supply equipment for large-scale gas field development offshore Malaysia Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens to supply equipment for large-scale gas field development offshore Malaysia Press release June 2, 2020 Munich Industrial gas turbines will power 900-MMCFD offshore Central Processing Platform (CPP) for PETRONAS Carigali Sdn Bhd Centrifugal compressor trains will export sales gas to the riser platform nearshore Siemens Gas and Power was recently awarded a contract to supply three SGT-300 industrial gas turbine generators (GTG), three mechanical-drive SGT-300 gas turbines and three DATUM centrifugal compressors for the PETRONAS Kasawari Gas Field Development Project in the South China Sea, offshore Sarawak in Malaysia. The customer, Malaysia Marine and Heavy Engineering (MMHE) has formed a joint venture with TechnipFMC to execute this work, with PETRONAS Carigali Sdn Bhd (PCSB) as the end user. The SGT-300 gas turbine is most renowned for its use in the oil and gas industry and is a popular choice because of its compact arrangement, easy on-site maintainability, and reliability. With an estimated recoverable gas resource circa three trillion standard cubic feet (TSCF), the Kasawari field is one of the most significant gas discoveries in Malaysia. Once in production, the field will produce up to 900 million cubic feet per day (MMCFD) of gas, which will be delivered to the PETRONAS LNG Complex in Bintulu, Sarawak. The three SGT-300 GTG units will have dual-fuel capability. Each turbine will have a power capacity of 7.9 megawatts electric (MWe) at ISO condition. The units will provide the necessary power to the entire CPP that will process and export the natural gas. Power demands include living quarters and electrical utilities for all process systems and wellheads. The three SGT-300 mechanical drive gas turbines are designed to produce a power output of 9 megawatts (MW) at ISO condition. They will directly drive the DATUM compressors that will compress and export sales gas to the existing riser platform nearshore, before delivering gas to the LNG complex. The SGT-300 is a robust, proven gas turbine used for power generation and mechanical drive applications throughout the world. The turbine is most renowned for its use in the oil and gas industry and is a popular choice because of its compact arrangement, easy on-site maintainability, and reliability. The SGT-300 GTG also has a high-efficiency, an innovative dry low emissions (DLE) combustion system and more than 7 million hours of operating experience worldwide. Compared to other gas turbines on the market, the SGT-300 GTG offers a lower life cycle cost, particularly a longer overhaul interval, as well as higher reliability. The core engine for each SGT-300 will be manufactured at the Siemens Gas Turbine Service Center in Lincoln, United Kingdom, and the GTGs and gas turbine compressor train will be packaged and tested in Houston, Texas, USA. The units will be delivered to the customer in time for the planned startup of the CPP in Q1 2023. “Siemens Gas and Power is proud to be selected by MMHE in supporting PCSB’s project to supply our proven, robust SGT-300 gas turbines and DATUM compressors for their large-scale field projects,” said Thorbjoern Fors, CEO for Siemens Energy Oil & Gas Division. “This new contract award follows our breakthrough year in 2018 in Malaysia when Siemens supplied three SGT-300 units after signing our Global Frame Agreement contract with PETRONAS in 2017.” For further information on Siemens Gas and Power, please see http://www.siemens.com/energy Links Website: Energy Contact Janet Ofano Gas and Power 5101 Westinghouse Boulevard 28273-9640 Charlotte United States of America janet.ofano@siemens.com +1 803-389-6753 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (136 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future. It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. www.siemens.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025