Oil and Gas Onshore Solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Onshore Solutions for Oil and Gas Operations Harnessing data for enhanced performance Next-level oil and gas production solutions The ‘Internet of Things’ (IoT) is driving the rapid pace of digital adoption across multiple industries. The oil and gas industry is beginning a transformation of its own, increasingly looking toward data-driven solutions to boost performance, enhance efficiency and ultimately, to reduce costs. Siemens Energy helps customers optimize the performance of critical oil and gas assets and equipment. We draw on an extensive software portfolio, deep expertise in data analytics and extensive experience in oil and gas and other industries. SIWELL Artificial Lift Suite Vision for (SRP) Sucker-rod Pumps “ Experience – Customer centricity – Portfolio – Digitalization – Sustainability. With our deep process insights and our solution families, we take responsibility for customer success beyond Siemens Energy equipment and support the industry on the path to a lower carbon footprint. We are integrating solutions for our customers for the past 20 years. Our domain know-how and close customer ties in the regions are our strong lever for supporting the success of our customers. We are tailoring our solutions, depending on customer requirements, and are driving future oriented, sustainable solutions, which extend from electrification, to automation and data driven applications for onshore. Our vendor agnostic mindset makes us unique and make the difference in our customers’ entire value chain. Denis Voloder Vice President Global Onshore Solutions at Siemens Energy Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025