Medium-voltage direct current (MVDC PLUS®) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Medium-voltage direct current (MVDC PLUS®) The grid connector: economic, flexible, powerful MV transmission. Regional HV & MV sub-transmission networks and MV distribution grids play a vital role in controlling the omnidirectional power flows that characterize today’s and even more so tomorrow’s energy ecosystems. MVDC PLUS® helps to manage this challenge and offers additional advantages. Arrange a Consultation Ready for the future energy distribution system MVDC PLUS® is Siemens Energy’ answer to the challenges that regional high-voltage transmission networks and medium-voltage distribution grids increasingly have to deal with. It makes the advantages of DC technology available for applications in AC networks. Transmission distances grow in increasingly liberalized markets. Growing infeed from distributed power generation units causes power quality and grid stability issues. Grid infrastructure needs to be expanded, upgraded, and reconnected to handle the volatile demand for flexible electricity supply. Distribution System Operators (DSOs) require a higher degree of transmission autonomy to fulfil today’s expanded range of tasks. Siemens Energy’ MVDC PLUS® is the efficient, robust, reliable, and compact solution that provides answers to all these challenges. It increases transmission capabilities, strengthens the grid infrastructure, helps minimize losses, and provides reactive power compensation and load flow control. MVDC PLUS® overview Address all challenges in MV transmission simultaneously The increasingly complex energy landscape poses several new challenges to regional transmission and distribution grids. MVDC PLUS® is the innovative universal solution that helps handle all issues smoothly. One solution, many benefits MVDC PLUS® comes in three standardized type ratings and is based on Siemens Energy’ proven multilevel voltage-sourced converter technology. This ensures universal applicability and renders numerous benefits. Improved connectivity MVDC PLUS® does the trick when it comes to grid coupling and to connecting or re-connecting islanded  grids of independent frequency to superordinate supply structures. Improved capacity MVDC PLUS® makes possible substantial and sustainable capacity improvements that can avert or delay network expansions. Improved environmental compatibility MVDC PLUS® requires comparatively little space and allows for the use of considerably less visually bothersome MV Overhead Transmission Lines (OHLs) for the transmission of up to 150 MW compared to AC solutions. Improved economic efficiency MVDC PLUS® offers an exceptional price / performance factor thanks to its large performance spectrum that renders a whole range of individual measures otherwise necessary. Proven high-quality technology provides the reliable basis MVDC PLUS® is based on modular multilevel voltage-sourced converter (VSC) technology. This mature technology from Siemens Energy has proven its efficiency and performance in numerous HVDC PLUS® and SVC PLUS® applications. A smart combination of advantages - MVDC PLUS® combines the best of AC and DC transmission: The simple design, robustness, reliability and low costs of common AC technology that can be easily integrated in existing transmission networks The long-distance transmission capabilities, high transmission capacity, active power flow control, reactive power compensation, and STATCOM properties of HVDC PLUS® technology MVDC PLUS® is based on Siemens Energy’ renowned and proven HVDC PLUS® technology. The symmetrical monopole layout basically represents the HVDC-topology slimmed down to its basic functionality. At the heart of the system are rugged and powerful multilevel voltage-sourced converters (VSCs). They produce an almost ideal sinusoidal waveform and this way ensure consistent power quality. The converter stations allow for bidirectional power flow and can operate as STATCOMs. Discover HVDC PLUS® Additional information MVDC PLUS®  white paper PDF (659 KB) Download MVDC PLUS® Flyer PDF (2 MB) Download Grid Stabilization Brochure PDF (23 MB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025