Surge arresters for railway applications Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Surge arresters for railway applications Siemens Energy has been designing and manufacturing medium- and high-voltage surge arresters for standard and special applications since 1925. We have produced surge arresters for railway systems for over 80 years. Continuous research and development, extensive know-how and global experience give Siemens Energy surge arresters a leading position in the overvoltage protection market. Their uncompromising quality ensures a long service life and reliability in every application Contact our experts Overview of surge arresters for railway applications Our portfolio consists of AC and DC surge arresters for a variety of different applications. Our surge arresters for railway applications protect every part of a rail system, from traction substations, transmission lines, cables and catenary systems to rail vehicles for local, long distance and high-speed services up to 420 km/h. We offer several surge arresters for AC and DC railway applications up to 45 kV. 3EB4 - Silicone rubber surge arresters with composite hollow core design for use on traction vehicles and for fixed installation in AC and DC systems. 3EB5 – Silicone rubber surge arresters with Cage DesignTM for use on traction vehicles and for fixed installation in AC and DC systems. 3EB2 and 3EB3 – Surge arresters with silicone rubber housing for use on traction vehicles and for fixed installation in DC systems; A1 and A2 application. The 3EB2 is DC-B classified, the 3EB3 is DC-C classified. Our product families 3EB4 silicone surge arrester in composite housing Housing made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) and silicone rubber sheds For AC systems up to 25 kV For DC systems up to 3 kV Train speeds up to 420 km/h Rated short circuit current 50 kA Tested according to IEC 60099-4 (AC version) and EN 50526-1 (DC version) Fire test according to DIN EN 45545-2 Shock and vibration test according to IEC 61373 Application: High-speed and intercity trains Commuter and regional trains (Multi-system) locomotives Urban transport (light rail, metros and tram cars) Rail electrification 3EB5 silicone surge arrester with cage design™ Cage Design™ housing with direct molded silicone For AC systems up to 25 kV For DC systems up to 3 kV Train speeds up to 200 km/h Rated short circuit current 65 kA Tested according to IEC 60099-4 (AC version) and EN 50526-1 (DC version) Fire test according to DIN EN 45545-2 Shock and vibration test according to IEC 61373 Application: Intercity trains Commuter and regional trains (Multi-system) locomotives Urban transport (light rail, metros and tram cars) Rail electrification Rail electrification DC types 3EB2 and 3EB3 The 3EB2 and 3EB3 silicone-housed surge arresters were developed specifically for overvoltage protection in DC systems in accordance with the VDV A1-A2 application. The 3EB3 has a DC-C classification and an extremely high energy absorption capacity. Housing made of silicone rubber Tested according to EN 50526-1 Fire test according to DIN EN 45545-2 Shock and vibration test according to IEC 61373 Classification DC-B (3EB2); classification DC-C (3EB3) Application: Urban transport Rail electrification Downloadable resources for you Railway surge arresters PDF (845 KB) Get in contact with our experts Do you have any questions about our surge arresters? Contact us. We are pleased to offer you individual advice. Contact Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025