Mechanically switched capacitors (MSC and MSCDN) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Mechanically switched capacitors (MSC and MSCDN) In many cases, the simplest solution for controlling reactive power is just sufficient. That makes mechanically switched capacitors (MSC) and mechanically switched reactors (MSR) the most economical power compensation devices for mainly constant or predictable voltage. Both devices are connected to the grid via high-voltage circuit breakers. Under heavy load conditions, MSCs provide voltage control and grid stabilization in a simple and cost-efficient way. MSRs provide stability under low load conditions or can be used at the end of long, radial AC lines. However, usage is somewhat limited as the capacitors need to discharge for several minutes after switching off an MSC bank. Filter circuits are often used in industrial plants. The filter circuits damp the generated harmonics which are produced by inverters and nonlinear loads. The MSCDN additionally offers a damping network to avoid resonance conditions in the electrical system. Arrange a consultation Most efficient way of controlling reactive power Simple and most economical: mechanically switched capacitors (MSC), mechanically switched reactors (MSR) or filter circuits (FC) are well proven in many applications. When speed is not the main focus, mechanically switched capacitors (MSC) are a simple and low-speed solution that provides grid stabilization and voltage control under heavy load conditions, while mechanically switched reactors (MSR) provide stabilization under low load conditions. A more advanced variant is a mechanically switched capacitor with damping network (MSCDN). This filter circuit provides reactive power to the grid by using a capacitive filter structure. This limits the amplification of existing harmonics in the grid, and further enhances grid stability. In industrial plants filter circuits reduce harmonics and improve the power factor. Switched filters enable a slow power factor control. Compact design The simple and effective compensation method for the grid makes possible the compact design to fit in limited space. Cost-effective solution Mechanically switched capacitors (MSC), mechanically switched reactors (MSR) or filter circuits (FC) are both proven solutions for fairly constant or predictable voltage or reactive power profiles. Transient and harmonic damping A capacitive filter structure enables the mechanically switched capacitor with damping network (MSCDN) to damp existing harmonics and transients for example from switching events. Mechanical switching variations Increasing voltage through mechanically switched capacitors (MSC) or switched filter circuits (FC) Mechanically switched capacitors (MSC) or filter circuits (FC) allow automatic switching of the capacitor banks according to the requirement of the network system and can also be switched on and off manually. MSC increase voltage at the point of connection. Decreasing voltage through mechanically switched reactor (MSR) Mechanically switched reactors (MSR) have the opposite effect of mechanically switched capacitors. MSR therefore decrease voltage at the point of connection. Filtering harmful frequencies through mechanically switched capacitors with damping network (MSCDN) or filter circuits (FC) MSCDN and FC provide reactive power to the grid through a capacitive filter structure. It provides capacitive reactive power under power frequency conditions. When its tuning frequency is exceeded, the MSCDN has an inductive behavior. At high-frequency conditions it acts as a damping resistor. Filter circuits are specific designed in order to damp the harmonics on its junction point. Our solutions in practice and other applications MSC/MSCDN – solutions and filter circuits from Siemens Energy have been successfully proven in practice. Seven MSCDNs for substation extension project Delivery of seven MSCDNs with different operating ranges (20-80 MVar) for the “275-kV Mambong and Entinggan substation extension” project Component design, to ensure its proper interaction with the grid, implementation and commissioning Providing voltage support and filtering of specific frequencies at the Mambong substation Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025