Expansion Turbines Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Expansion turbines - improving plant optimization Integrally geared radial expanders Integrally geared radial expanders are applied where energy can be recovered from medium to high temperature off-gas or process gas streams from chemical and other industrial processes. The design is based on our integrally geared centrifugal compressor concept invented more than 70 years ago. Energy in the hot gas stream is converted directly to mechanical energy which can then be used to drive a compressor or generator respectively. While improving the overall energy balance of the plant, this also saves operating expenses as well as capital cost because there is no need for additional heat exchangers and steam generation equipment otherwise required for heat transfer. Radial expanders can be configured as stand-alone units with up to three expansion stages arranged around a central bull gear, or they can be integrated into the casing of an integrally geared compressor transferring power directly to the compressor bull gear by a pinion shaft. Integrally geared radial expanders are applied where energy can be recovered from medium to high temperature off-gas or process gas streams from chemical and other industrial processes. The design is based on our integrally geared centrifugal compressor concept invented more than 70 years ago. Package options Applications Features Package options Radial expanders can be integrated with the driven equipment and auxiliaries into easy to handle packages for ease of on-site installation and commissioning.  Packages would normally include the compressor, its driver(s), process gas coolers, lube oil system, process piping, and other auxiliaries. Additional drivers can be electric motors as well as steam turbines. Applications Purified terephthalic acid (PTA) Dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) Nitric acid Other industrial processes Features Designed according to both API 617 and API 672 Gas inlet temperature: up to 550 °C / 1,020 °F Maximum inlet pressure: 20 bar / 290 psi Discharge volumes: up to 600,000 m³/h / 340,000 cfm Power recovery: up to 45,000 kW / 60,000 HP Up to three expansion stages in stand-alone configuration Inter-heating between expansion stages possible Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025