Oil and gas: solutions for safe, efficient and reliable operation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Helping secure a sustainable future for oil and gas Providing solutions to operate safely, efficiently, reliably, with reduced greenhouse gas emissions The world is evolving rapidly, with global population expected to rise nearly 30 percent by 2050. The world’s challenges are also evolving, harmful emissions chief among them. And so the solutions must also evolve, if we are to meet society’s ever-growing demand for clean energy . We partner with oil and gas customers to navigate the new normal, delivering what matters most: safety, efficiency, reliability, sustainability – and ultimately, peace of mind. Upstream, midstream and downstream: the oil and gas landscape The oil and gas sector is a critical component of the global energy landscape, responsible for the exploration, extraction, production, and distribution of fossil fuels . With our comprehensive portfolio we help this industry to adapt and thrive in a rapidly changing world. Our offerings across the oil and gas industry Midstream solutions Combining OT + IT to move fossil fuels to destination markets with maximum efficiency. Read more LNG Unlocking the value in natural gas. Read more Offshore solutions Changing the way we power offshore operations. Read more Onshore solutions Harnessing data to enhance asset performance. Read more Cybersecurity Like critical industries everywhere, oil and gas operations make prime targets for cyber threats of all kinds. Read more Products, solutions and services for the oil and gas industry Centrifugal, reciprocating and axial compressors Siemens Energy offers a comprehensive portfolio of turbo and reciprocating compression solutions for the Oil and Gas industry and other process industries. Compressor solutions can be standardized or tailored to your needs in a variety of applications. View our portfolio Modular integrated solutions The oil and gas industry demands field-proven power and compression solutions that ensure safe operations, enhance installation efficiency, minimize downtime, and address space constraints. To meet these requirements, Siemens Energy draws on decades of experience to offer highly reliable plug-and-play modules for power generation; high-, medium-, and low- voltage (HV, MV, and LV) power distribution; and compression for both offshore and onshore applications. Explore our modular integrated solutions Gas turbines For power generation in upstream, midstream and downstream applications as well as mechanical drives for compressors and pumps, Siemens Energy gas turbines are proven and trusted in the industry. They ensure outstanding reliability for oil and gas production and processing as well as pipeline, LNG and refinery applications. Learn more about gas turbines Services From modernizations and upgrades, remote monitoring, condition monitoring and diagnostics to turnkey services, we team with you to achieve optimal performance and maximize success. Discover our services Subsea solutions The future of Oil and Gas recovery involves accessing increasingly complex reserves frequently located in deep and ultra-deep waters. Subsea processing opens the door to more cost-efficient developments – especially for long step-outs, and for marginal and dispersed fields. It requires enabling systems to improve recovery rates and minimize operating costs. Furthermore, it involves advanced supporting power supply and distribution technology. Learn more about subsea solutions Water solutions Water is a resource and a byproduct of all that we do – a critical element in offshore, onshore, upstream and downstream activities. Our core business is processing and treating water and wastewater for companies like yours. Explore water solutions Recent publications Transitioning to an electrified future - article in Hydrocarbon Processing In the latest edition of Hydrocarbon Processing magazine, Stefan Diezinger explores in his article "Transitioning to an electrified future" the opportunities and challenges in decarbonizing industrial processes through electrification and presents practical, strategic solutions for ensuring stable power supply and grid compliance . Understanding these challenges and opportunities becomes vital in advancing within our commitment to sustainability as we navigate toward an electrified future . Publications September 22, 2022 7 min read We desperately need O&G companies to honor the Paris Agreement. Here’s how. October 27, 2021 8 min read How cyber-ready is the oil and gas industry? See all stories Oil & gas insights October 4, 2021 Berlin Siemens Energy and Technip Energies announce joint development of decarbonized Rotating Olefins Cracker technology and selection by Cracker of the Future Consortium August 23, 2022 Berlin Siemens Energy and Duke Energy’s gas power plant achieves GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS™ title See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025