Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , February  25, 2025  
Less CO 2: Siemens Energy is supporting 
Taiwan ’s energy transition  
Siemens Energy is supplying two gas turbines and related components for the Kuo Kuang  2 power 
plant in Taiwan. With a planned electrical capacity of 1,200 MW, the plant will play a key role in 
meeting the growing energy needs of Taiwan's booming industrial and technology sector. The plant 
will also support Taiwan's energy transition strategy, which includes phasing out coal and nuclear, 
while massively expanding renewable and low -carbon energy sources.  
 
Taiwan boasts a robust industrial base in  electronics, engineering, and  particularly semiconductors. 
About 60 percent of all microchips are produced in Taiwan, making a stable power supply essential. 
With electricity demand expected to rise by 12 -13% by 2030, driven largely by AI, Taiwan is 
expanding clean power generation  and upgrading the grid  to balance reliability  and sustainability. 
The commissioning of the new power plant will allow for older , CO 2-intensive plants to be taken off 
the grid. Modern natural gas power plants emit up to two -thirds less greenhouse gases than coal or 
oil-fired plants.  
 
Siemens Energy is a long -term partner with Kuo Kuang Power Co. Ltd. and is already responsible for 
the smooth operation and maintenance of the Kuo Kuang gas -fired power plant  unit 1 , which was 
commissioned in 20 03, under  an O&M contract. Kuo Kuang  2 is the next combined cycle power 
project for Siemens Energy in Taiwan after the recent successful completion of the  Sun Ba  2 project, 
a 1,100 MW plant.  
 
Karim Amin, member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board and responsible for the Gas Services 
Business Area , said: “The Kuo Kuang 2 project is a continuation of our success story in Kuo Kuang 1 
and a testament to the trust that customers place in our products and services. Our cutting -edge HL 
gas turbines will enhance the power generation efficiency and reduce CO 2 emissions. This 
technology, when paired with renewable energies, enables rapid power plant start -up, ensuring a 
reliable energy supply for Taiwan ." 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
Kuo Kuang  2 is being built together with CTCI Corporation as the consortium partner responsible for 
the engineering, procurement and construction of the plant.  
 
Siemens Energy's scope of supply  is a complete power island solution  includ ing two SGT6 -9000HL 
gas turbines, one SST6 -5000 steam turbine, three SGEN6 -2000P generators and the 
Omnivise  T3000 control system.  
 
 
Contact s for journalists  
Claudia Nehring  
Phone:   +49 162 1668424  
E-mail:  claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
Theo Wu  
Phone:  + 886 903055020  
E-mail:  taiyu.wu@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on LinkedIn : www.linkedin.com/company/siemens -energy/  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €3 4.5 billion in 
fiscal year 202 4. www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 