siemens-energy.comGreen Bond  
Framework
January 2023 
LET’S MAKE TOMORROW DIFFERENT TODAY
Formed in April 2020 following the spin-off of the Gas & Power  
unit of Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG (“Siemens Energy”, the 
“Company”), is a global leader of the energy sector, generating 
EUR29bn revenues in 2022. Siemens Energy provides a wide spec -
trum of products, solutions and services across the energy value 
chain, from power generation, transmission, and storage to opti -
mizing energy consumption in industrial processes. With its Gas 
Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry business 
areas, Siemens Energy has consistently positioned its business 
along three pillars: low- or zero-emission power generation, trans -
port and storage of energy, and reduction of greenhouse gas emis -
sions and energy consumption in industrial processes. 
With the majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy S.A. 
(“SGRE”, “Siemens Gamesa”), the Company also has a leading supplier of 
onshore and offshore wind energy in-house. On May 21, 2022, Siemens 
Energy announced a voluntary tender offer for all outstanding shares in 
SGRE which has been authorized by Spain’s National Securities Market 
Commission (“CNMV”) on November 7, 2022 and was successfully con-
cluded in December 2022. 
Following the successful completion of the transaction, Siemens Energy 
intends to delist SGRE from the Spanish stock exchanges and fully inte -
grate it. For Siemens Energy, this integration is an important strategic 
step. The goal is to play a decisive role in shaping the energy transition 
as a leading energy technology company.1 Introduction
Siemens Energy’s structure
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework
Page 2Therein indepentently 
Managed BusinessesTransformation 
of Industries
CEO SGREChristian Bruch
Executive Board
Reporting SegmentsMaria Ferraro Karim Amin Tim HoltAnne-Laure  
de Chammard Vinod Philip Jochen Eickholt
CFO
Siemens EnergyGas Services Grid Technology Transformation  
of IndustryGlobal Functions
Grid Technology Recondition Gas Service SGRE
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 3  1.1 Sustainability at Siemens Energy
1  Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022:  www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability- report-2022 . Sustainability is firmly anchored in our company strategy. It aims to become 
the integrated energy company of the future – combining a global and local 
approach with solutions along the complete value chain and a focus on 
sustainability. The Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) guide us in our 
ambition to become a sustainability leader in the industry. To ensure our 
efforts have the biggest impact we focus on five SDGs: 
• To achieve SDG 5 “Gender Equality”, we are striving to create equal 
opportunities, in the firm belief that not just our company, but society as 
a whole can benefit from inclusion and diversity. 
• By providing reliable, cost-effective, and sustainable energy for our 
 customers, we are contributing to SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”. 
• We cover SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth” with the inno-
vative power of our global operations, which stimulates economic 
 development in many countries and creates decent, future-proof jobs.
• Meanwhile, our products, services, and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide contribute to SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation, 
and Infrastructure”. 
• We enact SDG 13 “Climate Action” by helping our customers reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and by working toward a net-zero goal across 
the value chain.
In fiscal year 2020 and 2021, Siemens Energy conducted a materiality  ana - 
lysis with internal and external stakeholders to help determine the most 
relevant sustainability topics to focus on. The main priority identified via 
these materiality exercises revolve around climate and the goal to reduce 
the carbon footprint of Siemens Energy and their products. 1 At the core of the Sustainability Program is the goal to deliver sustainable 
energy systems along the entire value chain. Different topics around respon -
sible operations reflect Siemens Energy’s determination to take its ambition 
seriously by implementing respective programs. The businesses, regional 
entities, and central functions are responsible for implementing the Sustain -
ability Program.
1.1 a Decarbonizing our business 
We have established our company strategy on three pillars:
Low- or zero-emission power generation:
We are continually developing new products and technologies that have 
either zero emissions or significantly lower emissions, in both service and 
new units. Our SGRE reporting segment plays an essential role in the transi -
tion to zero-emission power generation.
Transport and storage of electricity
We are developing new products, services and solutions for the transport 
and storage of electricity, thereby expanding our transmission and hydrogen 
business.
Reducing greenhouse gas (“GHG”) footprint and energy consumption in 
industrial processes
We are helping our process industry customers to realize sustainable 
concepts for their brownfield facilities and for future installations.
Siemens Energy is committed to decarbonization along the value chain – 
from the supply chain to own operations to the use phase of products. In 
May 2022, Siemens Energy announced the aspiration to reach net zero across the entire value chain, in line with a 1.5°C pathway. Central to this is 
the target to become climate neutral in own operations by 2030. 
Ambitious targets guide this ambition: 
Targets Performance in FY22
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 46% 
by 2025 (previously: 2030) compared to 2019-21% (FY22 to FY21), 
-50% (compared to baseline 2019)
100% renewable electricity by 2023 90% (FY21: 76%)
28% reduction of Scope 3 GHG emission from the 
use of sold products by 2030 vs 2019t-3% (FY22 to FY21), 
-12% (compared to baseline 2019)
30% reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions from  
the supply chain by 2030, compared to 2018, 
calculated in kg CO2e / € PVO spent-4% (FY22 to FY21)
-10.85% (compared to baseline 2019)
In 2021, the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) validated the absolute 
GHG reduction targets for the Gas & Power reporting segment, not only for 
the own operations target (Scope 1 and 2), but also for the use phase of sold 
products (a category of Scope 3). This confirms that the targets are in line 
with the Paris Climate Agreement.
SBTi also verified that the reporting segments SGRE’s emission reduction 
targets (Scope 1 and 2) are aligned to meet the 1.5°C Paris Climate Agree -
ment goal. SGRE achieved climate neutrality in its own operations in 2019, 
including offsetting unavoidable emissions. It plans to achieve its Scope 1 
and 2 neutrality without offsets in 2030. 
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 4In accordance with a simplified approach allowed by the EU for first-time 
application 2, for fiscal year 2022 Siemens Energy discloses the shares of 
taxonomy-eligible economic activities in revenues, capital expenditures, 
and operating expenses related to the environmental objectives of climate 
change mitigation and climate change adaption. For further information 
please refer to Siemens Energy Annual Financial Report 2022. 3
EU Taxonomy Reporting 
for Fiscal Year 2022 TotalTaxonomy 
eligible %Taxonomy  
non-eligible %
Revenue 28.997 16.613 57% 12.385 43%
Capital expenditures 1.573 1.239 79% 334 21%
Operating expenses 1.309 530 40% 780 60%
1.1 b Responsible operations 
Beyond climate action, Siemens Energy has put in place a comprehensive 
program to showcase our ambition as a sustainability leader in our own 
operations. It is broken down into the following main thematic areas:
Health and Safety
Safe workplaces and healthy employees are our utmost priority. We have 
clear measures in place to identify risks, avoid accidents, and promote 
employee wellbeing.
Conservation of resources
Siemens Energy aims to limit the environmental impact of our own opera -
tion by reducing waste, freshwater withdrawal and air pollution and 
protecting biodiversity.
2   Application of the EU Taxonomy for Companies (eu-taxonomy.info).
3   https://assets.siemens-energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:2c6beb5b-85ef-4200-a361-6a4550a31b9b/2022-12-12-siemens-energy-ag-annual-report-2022.pdf. Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency. It 
takes into account all life cycle phases, including product development and 
design, manufacturing, operation, service, and end of life. Measures include 
life cycle assessments (“LCA”), environmental product declarations (“EPD”), 
component upgrades, and lifetime extensions as well as recycling.
Sustainable supply chain
Due to our global operations, Siemens Energy has suppliers in about 140 
countries. We are conscious of the impact our activities have on the people 
who work for us, on our suppliers as well as on local communities and the 
environment. We therefore share responsibility for protecting human rights, 
fair labor practices, anti-corruption measures, and environmental protection 
along the entire value chain.
We have put in place a Code of Conduct (CoC) for Suppliers and Third-Party 
Intermediaries, which is based on the Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) 
and the Principles of the UNGC (as defined below), and that all our suppliers 
and third-party intermediaries must sign. 
Human rights
As a globally operating company, we are aware of the impact our business 
has on people around the world, especially from our large-scale energy proj -
ects. We are dedicated to responsible business conduct and are committed 
to ensuring respect for human rights within our spheres of influence. Identi -
fying and managing our human rights impacts and mitigating risks along 
our entire value chain is therefore imperative.
Compliance and integrity
As we operate globally with customers from a wide range of industries in 
the private and public sectors, we are confronted with complex regulatory 
requirements coupled with increasing stakeholder expectations regarding 
integrity and risk management. In this context, we are committed to a 
strong culture of ethics and compliance. We pursue a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, violations of the principles of fair competition, 
and other breaches of the law. When such cases do occur, we take imme -
diate action. 
Working at Siemens Energy
With our People and Culture strategy  as a foundation, we aim to be the 
differentiator in the market for our customers, investors, suppliers, part -
ners, employees, and society. 
1. We strive to be the employer of choice in the energy industry and to 
develop a future-ready workforce
2. We focus on creating diverse, inclusive, and welcoming workplaces 
where people want to work 
3. We are investing in our strategic People Agenda, which is aligned with 
our company strategy, values, and behaviors
Social engagement
The Siemens Energy societal engagement approach combines a global 
framework with autonomy for local implementation in the countries in 
which we operate. To focus our activities and increase our impact, we have 
defined three focus areas based on our strategic context, our core compe -
tencies, the global targets for sustainable development, and the influence 
various global megatrends (demographics, urbanization, climate change, 
globalization, and digitalization) have on our industry and our business. The 
focus areas are:
1. Driving the Energy Transition: Supporting clean energy R&D
2. Access to Education: Promoting science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics (“STEM”) subjects and climate education – especially for 
underrepresented demographics
3. Sustaining Communities: Disaster recovery – especially related to elec -
tricity supply and actively reducing poverty
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 51.2 External ESG Ratings
Our ESG rating results show that we are on track with our sustainability 
program and in achieving our targets. Both the Gas & Power and SGRE 
reporting segments are rated by various ESG rating agencies, such as ISS ESG, 
Sustainalytics, MSCI ESG and CDP. The ratings support the objective assess -
ment of our organization and identify areas for improvement. For more infor -
mation on our ratings and rankings, please visit our  corporate website . Infor -
mation on SGRE’s latest ESG ratings is available on their website.
Siemens Gamesa at a glance
SGRE was created in 2017 following the announcement of the merger of 
Siemens’ wind power business and Gamesa the year before. 
SGRE focuses on the design, development, manufacturing and installation 
of products, as well as the provision of technologically advanced services in 
the renewable energy sector, with a focus on wind turbines. With EUR 10.2 bn 
of revenue and 118 GW installed worldwide, SGRE has become a leading 
global wind power player. 4
SGRE R&D Team is also exploring new market opportunities to support the 
decarbonization of the energy value chain, and in particular the integration 
of electrolyzer into offshore wind turbines to produce green hydrogen.
4  For more information please refer to Siemens Energy Annual Report 2021 and Siemens Gamesa Annual Report 2021.
5   Siemens and Gamesa to merge wind businesses to create a leading wind power player | Press | Company | Siemens .
6   siemens-gamesa-consolidated-non-financial-statement-2022-en.pdf  (siemensgamesa.com), p. 76.Siemens Gamesa plays a key role in Siemens Energy’s transition towards 
providing lower-carbon products and services, and in our sustainability 
strategy overall. With the announcement in May 2022 of our bid for the 
remaining minority stakes in Siemens Gamesa, Siemens Energy is reinforc ing 
the commitment towards providing cleaner energy solutions for our clients 
and thereby contributing to the achievement of the targets set out by the 
Paris Agreement. We are convinced that a single well-diversified energy 
company supporting our customers through the transition to a more sustain -
able world will allow us to accelerate the development of our renewable 
energy products and services, and therefore the acquisition of the remaining 
shares of Siemens Gamesa constitutes a landmark event in our sustainability 
journey. 
With the acquisition of the remaining shares of Siemens Gamesa and the 
full consolidation of the two entities, Siemens Energy continues the ambi -
tious plans first set by the merger of Siemens and Gamesa announced in 
June 2016: the merger of Siemens’ wind power business with Gamesa aimed 
at creating a leading global wind power player with a global footprint in 
Northern America, Northern and Southern Europe, India and Latin America 
with a product offer covering all wind classes 5. The positive environmental 
impact is illustrated by the growth in cumulative GW installed from GW 88.8 
in FY 18 to GW 127.5 in FY 22. This growth is expected to accelerate with the 
consolidation of the two entities. 6
Furthermore, the full consolidation of the two entities will facilitate the collab -
oration between the current SGRE and Gas & Power segments of Siemens 
Energy for the development of innovative sustainable energy products and 
solutions based on the expertise of both entities. In particular, Siemens 
Gamesa and Siemens Energy partnered in 2021 for the development of indus -
trial scale system to harvest green hydrogen from offshore wind, combining Siemens Gamesa’s long standing expertise in offshore wind and Siemens 
Energy’s abilities to deliver best-in-class new electrolysis products adapted to 
offshore wind conditions. Such strategic developments with clear environ -
mental impact will be boosted following the full merging of the two entities.
The present Green Bond Framework (the “Framework”) will allow Siemens 
Energy to issue an inaugural Green Bond aimed at either refinancing the 
existing debt of Siemens Energy, initially put in place in May 2022 for the 
acquisition of the remaining shares outstanding of Siemens Gamesa or re  - 
financing the existing debt of Siemens Gamesa, where Siemens Gamesa is 
considered a pure player company as further described in this Framework. 1.3 Rationale for establishing a Green Bond Framework
2 Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework
Siemens Energy commits to providing information with transparency, accu -
racy and integrity according to the four core components of the Green Bond 
Principles 2021 (“GBP”) 7 as administered by ICMA:
1.  Use of proceeds
2. Process for project evaluation and selection
3.  Management of proceeds
4.  Reporting
The Eligible Green Categoy as defined below 
substantially contribute to UN Sustainable 
Development Goals 7 (“Affordable and Clean 
Energy”) and 13 (“Climate Action”) and EU 
environmental objectives. 
The Framework also takes into consideration the EU Taxonomy Regulation 8 
(the “EU Taxonomy”) and the EU Taxonomy Delegated Acts on Climate 
Change Mitigation and Adaptation 9 adopted in December 2021.
This Framework may be updated from time to time to ensure compliance 
with applicable law and continued alignment with voluntary market prac -
tices (including the ICMA Principles), developing standards (including the 
EU Green Bond Standard) and classification systems. For any material revi -
sion of the Framework, Siemens Energy will seek to obtain a refreshed 
Second Party Opinion (“SPO”).
  7  ICMA Green Bond Principles 2021:  Green-Bond-Principles-June-2021-100621.pdf (icmagroup.org) .
  8  Regulation (EU) 2020 / 852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019 / 2088.
  9  EU Taxonomy Delegated Act on Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation published in April 2021 and adopted in December 2021:  EUR-Lex-32021R2139-EN-EUR-Lex (europa.eu). 
10   siemens-gamesa-consolidated-non-financial-statement-2022-en.pdf (siemensgamesa.com) .2.1 Use of Proceeds
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds from the issuance of any Green 
Bond under this Framework will be allocated to finance and/or refinance, in 
whole or in part, new or existing Eligible Green Expenditures defined 
following the below eligibility criteria. 
Eligible Green Expenditures may include majority acquisitions of companies 
or minority equity participations in entities that derive 90% or more of their 
revenues from activities meeting the eligibility criteria described in the table 
below, also called ‘pure player companies’ as well as re-financing of existing 
debt of a pure player company.
Eligible Green Categories – Eligibility Criteria
Eligible categories Eligibility Criteria EU environmental objectives EU Taxonomy mapping
Renewable energyExpenditures related to the design, development, 
manufacturing and installation of onshore and 
offshore wind turbines 
Climate change mitigation3.1 Manufacture of renewable energy 
 technologies
Expenditures related to the operation and mainte -
nance of onshore and offshore wind farms 7.6 Installation, maintenance and repair of 
renewable energy technologiesSiemens Gamesa reports 10 over ninety-nine percent (99.28%) of its reve -
nues in fiscal year 2022 as EU-Taxonomy eligible. Of this, 76.9% corresponds 
to the wind turbine manufacturing activity (3.1 Manufacture of renewable 
energy technologies), and 22.4% to the Service activity (7.6 Installation, 
maintenance, and repair of renewable energy technologies). Only 0.7% of 
total revenue, which corresponds to the sale of gearboxes and electric cabi -
nets to third parties in different sectors, is reported as non-eligible.
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework
Page 6
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 72.2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection
11   https://press.siemens-energy.com/global/en/pressrelease/siemens-energy-ag-announces-voluntary-cash-tender-offer-all-outstanding-shares-siemensLow and zero emissions power generation is one of the three strategic 
pillars of Siemens Energy, with SGRE already playing an essential role in 
driving Siemens Energy’s offering in this area. With the full integration of 
SGRE, Siemens Energy aims to further strengthen its ESG capabilities and 
be best positioned to support their customers in the energy transition. The 
integration will allow Siemens Energy to provide a one-stop-shop approach 
to customers across all energy products and solutions and consolidate the 
company’s leadership in wind power generation solutions. 11 Thanks to its 
current 67% stake in SGRE, Siemens Energy believes it has an appropriate 
overview of SGRE’s activity and product offering to assess the potential 
positive environmental benefits of this operation and to ensure SGRE quali -
fies as a pure player company as defined in section 2.1 of this Framework.a   ESG Risk Management
Siemens Energy systematically monitors business risks. Within the Enter -
prise Risk Management (“ERM”) process, the Executive Board is informed 
quarterly and aligns on the reporting of all significant risks and opportuni -
ties throughout the Company, including climate issues. 
As a company with a strong focus on sustainability, it is essential that we 
integrate the consideration of ESG criteria in our decisions. We have done so 
by developing a criteria catalog and scoring methodology to evaluate the 
ESG impacts of current and potential portfolio elements, considering both 
risks and opportunities.
Furthermore, we have developed a list of ESG-related questions to be used 
when analyzing our merger and acquisition activities.
Siemens Energy’s priority is to manage all acquisitions in an environmen -
tally and socially responsible manner.-
The Siemens Energy ESG due diligence process, that may also be applied to 
M&As, is based on a set of ESG criteria related to laws and regulations, 
working standards (e. g. respect of human and labor rights, health & safety 
management, job creation, diversity & inclusion, employee engagement  
& development), environmental considerations (e. g. climate change mitiga -
tion, biodiversity conservation, natural resources protection, pollution 
prevention and control), social considerations (e. g. cultural heritage, local 
development, land acquisition and resettlement, dialogue with communities) 
and governance considerations (e. g. ESG policies and programs, business 
ethics, cyber security, data protection, interests of stakeholders, responsible 
procurement). Our criteria are aligned with EU Taxonomy criteria.As a globally operating company, we are aware of the impact our business 
has on people around the world, especially from our large-scale energy 
projects. We are dedicated to responsible business conduct and are 
committed to ensuring respect for human rights within our spheres of 
influence. Identifying and managing our human rights impacts and miti -
gating risks along our entire value chain is therefore imperative. Our 
actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations; they 
include our commitment to:
• International Bill of Human Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights 
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of 
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy 
• ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  
(in particular on the following topics: elimination of child labor,  
abolition of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of 
 association and the right to collective bargaining, and fundamental 
 freedoms) 
• UN Sustainable Development Goals specifically SDG 8 “Decent Work 
and Economic Growth”, which we have defined as one of our priority 
SDGs 
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(“UNGPs”) 
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 
• United Nations Global Compact Principles,  to which we are a 
 signatory (“UNGC”) 
Siemens Energy’s high ESG standards apply to all our subsidiaries, including 
Siemens Gamesa, who is equipped with a comprehensive set of corporate 
ESG policies including a Sustainability Policy, Diversity & Inclusion Policy, 
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 8Health and Safety policy, Human Rights policy, Social commitment policy, 
Supplier relationship policy and a Supplier Code of Conduct 12. 
With the full integration of SGRE within Siemens Energy, the respective ESG 
risk policies and procedures will be consolidated aiming for the highest 
possible standards. 
b   Green Bond Committee
Siemens Energy has established a dedicated internal Green Bond Committee 
(the “Committee”) chaired by the Head of Treasury and Corporate Finance 
and formed of representatives from the following teams: Treasury and 
Corporate Finance, Accounting and Controlling, Sustainability, Investor 
Relations.
The Committee will be responsible for validating the amount to be funded 
via Green Bonds, identifying Eligible Green Expenditures and overseeing 
and verifying the annual reporting on allocation and impact of the net 
proceeds raised through the Green Bond(s). The Committee will also 
monitor the ongoing evolution of the Green Bond Principles and the Green 
Bond market in general, particularly in relation to disclosure and reporting, 
to ensure that Siemens Energy remains in line with best market practices.
The Committee will meet at least once and on an annual basis until full allo -
cation, or more frequently if required, to review proposed allocation and 
impact reporting and ensure that these are in alignment with the Frame -
work. 
12  For more information please refer to Siemens Gamesa 2022 Consolidated Non Financial Statement 2022:  siemens-gamesa-consolidated-non-financial-statement-2022-en.pdf (siemensgamesa.com) 
13   https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2021-updates/Handbook-Harmonised-Framework-for-Impact-Reporting-June-2021-100621.pdf 2.3 Management of Proceeds
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds of the Green Bonds raised under 
this Framework will be deposited in Siemens Energy’s general account and 
will be earmarked for allocation to the portfolio of Eligible Green Expendi -
tures that will be managed and overseen by the Treasury and Corporate 
Finance team. 
The Treasury and Corporate Finance will ensure, on a best efforts basis that 
the portfolio of Eligible Green Expenditures exceeds, or at least is equal to, 
the net proceeds of Green Bonds raised under this Framework.
Siemens Energy commits on a best effort basis to reach full allocation within 
24 months following each issuance of a Green Bond. 
Pending full allocation, the net proceeds will be invested on a temporary 
basis, in accordance with relevant internal treasury policies, in cash, cash 
equivalents or similar instruments.
In the case of an Eligible Green Expenditure disposal or if an Eligible Green 
Expenditure no longer meets the eligibility criteria or is subject to a major 
ESG controversy, the proceeds will be reallocated to another Eligible Green 
Expenditure held by Siemens Energy, as soon as reasonably practicable.2.4 Reporting
Within one year from the first issuance date and until an amount equivalent 
of the net proceeds has been allocated in full to Eligible Green Expenditures, 
and later in case of any material change, Siemens Energy will publish annu -
ally (i) an Allocation Report and (ii) an Impact Report, the latter subject to 
the availability of suitable information and data. 
The reports will be publicly available on the Siemens Energy website:
 https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-relations/  
publications-ad-hoc.html#QuarterlyandAnnualResults
Wherever possible, Siemens Energy intends to align its reporting with the 
approach described in the “Handbook – Harmonised Framework for Impact 
Reporting” (June 2021) 13.
Allocation Report
With the aim of providing disclosure on the allocation of net proceeds, the 
Allocation Report will include: 
• Overview of the Green Bond(s) outstanding 
• The share of refinancing vs new financing
• The balance of unallocated proceeds invested in cash and/or cash equiv -
alents, if any
Siemens Energy Green Bond FrameworkPage 9Impact Report
The Impact Report will provide information on the associated environmental 
outcomes of the Green Bond(s), subject to the availability of suitable infor -
mation and data. 
The impact report may include qualitative and / or quantitative evaluation of 
the environmental benefits, based on Siemens Energy’s sustainability ambi -
tion for the new fully consolidated entity. 
Currently, Siemens Energy’s economic interest in Siemens Gamesa is diluted 
by minority shareholders. By using proceeds to reduce this dilution, the 
owners of Siemens Energy will be able to immediately invest more net 
economic resources into Wind Power.
Along these lines, impact indicators may include:
• Installed Wind Power capacity, net to Siemens Energy (GW)
• R&D related to Wind Power, net to Siemens Energy (million Euros)
• CAPEX invested in Wind Power, net to Siemens Energy (million Euros)2.5 External Review
Second Party Opinion (SPO)
Sustainalytics has been appointed to review Siemens Energy’ Framework 
and ultimately verify its alignment with the ICMA Green Bond Principles 
2021 and market practices. The SPO can be found here: 
 https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-relations/
publications-ad-hoc.html#QuarterlyandAnnualResult 
Post-issuance external review 
An external auditor will be appointed to provide a Limited Assurance of each 
Allocation Report published with regard to use of net proceeds having been 
allocated in accordance with the Framework.Disclaimer
The statements contained herein represent Siemens Energy AG’s current 
view and may be revised in the future. The expressed views are inten -
tions and actual decision or events may differ materially from those 
expressed or implied in such statements. Siemens Energy AG does not 
assume any liability for the accuracy, completeness and compliance 
with the statements. Siemens Energy AG offers no assurance that its 
intentions or targets will be achieved and does not assume any obliga -
tion to update any views or statements to account for new information 
or future events. None of the statements contained herein constitute 
any offer or recommendation or solicitation of any offer of certain 
investments or any securities, even if individual issuers or securities are 
mentioned. Information given in this document should not be treated as 
substitute for specific investment advice and prior to any investment, 
prospective investors should consult with their professional advisors 
(including financial, accounting, legal and tax advisors).
This document is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person 
or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use 
would be contrary to law or regulation. Persons who might come into 
possession of this document must inform themselves about and comply 
with any applicable legal or regulatory restrictions. 
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Treasury & Corporate Finance: group-funding.se@siemens-energy.com   
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. siemens-energy.com
 twitter.com/siemens_energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy