siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability Report 2023 
Moving forward, 
step by step
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 2all our decisions and activities. Our premise: Only clean 
business is Siemens Energy business.
This report shows how we are improving step by step in 
these areas – and thus making our contribution to a 
successful energy transition.
Best regards,Dear readers,
With 36.8 billion tons of CO2, global emissions have 
reached record levels in 2022. But awareness of what 
needs to be done is also at a record high – the paths to 
decarbonization are known. Now the world needs to 
move from rhetoric to action.
At Siemens Energy, we are taking decisive action. Step 
by step, we have improved our sustainability perfor -
mance, as evidenced by our Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) ratings. We focus on continuous 
improvement rather than constantly setting new goals. 
Some of our targets like the purchasing of 100% green 
electricity within our Climate Neutral Program have 
already been achieved. Others will be more challeng-
ing, but we are working on measures to manage them.
We are convinced that the energy transition is a huge 
opportunity for society and for the economy, but it can-
not be done alone. It is the biggest investment program 
since the industrial revolution. By 2050, $150 trillion 
must be invested. Only then can emissions be signifi-
cantly reduced by 2030. To succeed, we need to expand Moving forward, step by step
Christian Bruch  
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer  
Siemens Energy AG
renewables, increase energy efficiency, strengthen the 
grids, bridge existing infrastructure, and secure the 
supply chains and materials needed for the energy tran-
sition. Industry has a central role to play in making this 
happen. At the same time, we can help communicate 
the changes that will result from the energy transition, 
because one thing is clear: the energy transition will 
trigger a lot of change – for everyone, everywhere. 
What will help us make our contribution to a success-
ful energy transition is close cooperation between 
industry, politics, and the financial world. Improving 
the policy framework alone will not be enough to 
achieve the breakthrough. We also need better incen-
tives to drive investment and deploy new technologies. 
Because 45% of the technologies we need to achieve 
net zero by 2050 are not yet market-ready or need to 
be scaled up.
Sustainability continues to be at the heart of our strat-
egy. We are committed to the ten principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact and are guided by the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals. The foundation for 
this is integrity in business. Compliance is the basis for Annex The company Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Foreword
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 3Performance indicator Unit 2023 2022
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 182 215
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 32 35
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 25 32
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 1,098,370 1,252,319²
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake0.022 0.033
Scope 3 upstream emissions³
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 9,230 9,182
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent 0.414 0.451
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule 5.19 5.80
Share of green electricity % 100 90Performance indicator Unit 2023 2022
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,123 1,078
Sustainable supply chain management
External sustainability audits at suppliers no. 194 167
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate % 82 81
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 3.25 3.45
Product stewardship
Portfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) % 73 72
Employees
Share of women in overall workforce % 20 20
Share of women in top leadership positions⁴ % 28 22
Training hours per employee no. 12.0 10.3
Occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees and contractors⁵ no. 2.67 2.27
Societal engagement
Donations million € 2.59 3.62Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
¹ Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.
²  Fiscal year 2022 emissions were recalculated to reflect the reduction of the expected lifetime for gas and steam turbines in power generation from 30 years to 28 years and 
an H2 co-firing project in fiscal year 2022.
³  Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only. 2022 data was adjusted to include Siemens Gamesa. Due to the partially 
undefined material codes of the purchasing volume at Siemens Gamesa, approximately 10% of the CO2e emissions were extrapolated. In fiscal year 2023, 325 kilotons of 
the 9,230 kilotons CO2e emissions were calculated using a consumption-based method.
⁴    Excluding Siemens Gamesa.
⁵  Total Recordable Injury Rate: Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed. Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted 
work, or medical treatment. Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 4Content
3 Responsible operations
Summary pages 42/43
Occupational health and safety 44
Zero Harm framework and safety culture
Featured expert: Zero Harm 49
Conservation of resources 51
environmental standards, water, and waste
Featured expert: Zero Waste 55
Product stewardship 57
product safety, footprint, and material compliance
Sustainable supply chain management 61
engagement, assessment, and minerals sourcing
Human rights 66
commitment, due diligence, and transparency
Compliance and integrity 68
zero-tolerance, training, and risk management
Working at Siemens Energy 72
inclusion & diversity, leadership, and training
Featured expert: Talent Attraction & Diversity 81
Societal engagement 83
global approach, local action, and donations4 Annex
The company and reporting method 88
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD) 89
Methodology for calculating of Scope 3  
– use of sold products emissions 100
Independent auditor’s report on a limited  
assurance engagement 102
Imprint 104Foreword 2
Our sustainability performance  3
Content 4
Highlight: Climate Neutral Program 5
Overview: Featured experts 8
1 The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 10
Strategic focus  12
our portfolio, program, and partnerships
2 Decarbonizing our business
Summary page 22
Customers and innovation 23
innovation approach and cybersecurity
Featured expert: Innovation 28
Decarbonization  30
at customers, in operations, and of the supply chain
Featured expert: Climate Action 39	 Reference within the report  
		 Link to an external referenceThe company Foreword Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Content
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 5The energy sector has the greatest levers – and a prime  
responsibility – for decarbonization. To support this, we have set 
ourselves ambitious targets across the entire value chain; this includes 
the aim to be climate neutral in our own operations by 2030.Climate neutral: 
Delivering on our 
commitmentsThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 6Our Climate Neutral Program is part of our commitment to decarboniza-
tion across the entire value chain. We are working hard to reduce emis-
sions within our own operations. Every ton of emissions counts.
The goal of the CNP is to become climate neutral in Siemens Energy’s own 
operations by 2030. The interim goal is to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions – according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol – 
by 46% by 2025, compared to 2019. The integration of Siemens Gamesa 
into the CNP is ongoing.
Aiming at quick wins
Achieving climate neutrality in our sector and in a company of our size is 
an ambitious undertaking. Naturally, we started with where we could 
achieve rapid implementation and impact. The switch to green power was 
obvious. The challenge was the global scope, requiring collaboration 
between the Business Areas, our countries of operation, real estate, pro-
curement divisions, and the global sustainability team.The urgent call for more energy efficiency has struck a chord within the 
company. Saving primary energy makes good business sense, especially in 
times of rising costs. In fiscal year 2023, we managed to reduce our primary 
energy by 15% due to  reduced testing of gas turbines, energy efficiency 
measures, and consolidation of locations. 
The program’s levers are:
• Using renewable electricity: In fiscal year 2023 (i.e., by September 
30), we achieved our target of 100% of our electricity consumption com-
ing from renewable sources – globally.
• Reducing energy consumption and increasing electrification: We 
aim to reduce the consumption of primary energy and have energy effi-
ciency projects in place at various locations for buildings and process 
optimization.
• Reducing SF6 emissions: With our Blue Portfolio, we have set ourselves 
the target to reduce our SF6-related emissions by 60% by 2030 com-
pared to a 2019 baseline.
• New mobility concepts: We are aiming for 100% CO2-neutral benefit 
cars by 2030 by implementing our car policy globally.
In 2023, we have achieved a reduction of emissions of CO2 equivalents 
(CO2e) of about 59% in Scopes 1 and 2 against 2019. This means we 
reached our milestone for 2025 two years earlier than anticipated. For 
more information on our achievements, see the 	Decarbonization chapter .Austria: Efficiency gains save energy
To advance our Climate Neutral Program, the Siemens Energy power 
transformer site in Linz (Austria) is following a clear path to decarbon-
ization. “We started two years ago by analyzing where our highest  
levels of CO2 emissions were,” explains Stefan Mehrl, Location Man-
ager at the Linz factory. “This led to a switch to electric process heat-
ing called “power-to-heat” to replace natural gas. Furthermore, we 
have executed various energy efficiency projects, including window 
adjustments, a partial conversion to LED lighting, changed hall lighting 
times, and the installation of a photovoltaic system.” This PV system 
covers approximately 30% of the site’s electricity demand, and two  
further phases of installation are planned. “More recently, we focused 
on the ventilation system for the production areas for insulating parts 
and winding,” Mehrl continues. “Our solution is night and weekend 
programs, reducing ventilation at times when it is not needed. This 
enabled us to save a third of the electricity required in the relevant 
areas.” The workforce has also learned about energy-saving measures 
and was encouraged to contribute and get updated on progress and 
results. For its energy efficiency measure of optimizing the ventilation 
system in the workshop in Linz, Siemens Energy received the 2023  
“klimaaktiv” award from the Austrian Ministry of Climate Protection.
The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 7Bigger challenges ahead
But the work has only just begun – it will get harder to significantly reduce 
our emissions the closer we get to climate neutrality. We are continuing to 
invest in infrastructure, including energy-saving measures, decarbonizing 
heating energy, and strategically looking into various options to decarbon-
ize manufacturing processes and testing sites. Our Business Areas are ini-
tially focusing on their respective top-ten emitting sites, covering approxi-
mately 60% of the emissions. They are working closely with the real estate 
department to implement decarbonization measures and upgrades. In par -
allel, operations at country level are investigating measures relating to the 
car fleet and logistics. 
Our Business Area Grid Technologies (GT) faces a particular challenge in 
reducing leakages of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), a greenhouse gas with a 
global warming potential 23,500 times higher than CO2 that makes up 
more than 50% of the Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The gas is used in cylin-
der-shaped insulators in high-voltage switchgears, where leakages can 
occur. Now we are in the process of moving to an SF6-free Blue Portfolio, 
based on technical air insulation and vacuum switching technology. Our 
aim is to reduce our SF6-related emissions by 60% until 2030, compared to 
2019 levels. In fiscal year 2023, we achieved a reduction of 57% compared 
to the base year and of 11% compared to fiscal year 2022.
With all these measures combined, and even more to come, we aim to 
continue to deliver on our target to become climate neutral by 2030 step 
by step.Energy-saving measures
Manufacturing  
process
Testing sitesDecarbonizing  
heating energyBrazil: Carbon fee funds journey to net zero
Carbon pricing can be an effective instrument to incorporate the  
external cost of climate-related damage into the prices of products  
and services. As a company measure, defining a virtual price per ton  
of greenhouse gas emissions creates an incentive to lower emissions. 
This contributes to a more realistic picture of the cost of investments 
by considering potential damage that an investment can cause in the 
long run. As part of our Climate Neutral Program in Brazil, we have 
attached a fee to the emissions of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) arising from 
the manufacturing of our products (Scopes 1 and 2). The Business Area 
raises funds that are reinvested to provide capital for our journey to cli-
mate neutrality. Since fiscal year 2020, the scheme has gathered some 
€356,000, which we are investing in eight projects, saving around 650 
tons of CO2e. Employees are encouraged to submit project ideas that 
contribute to emission savings and low abatement costs. Projects are 
selected based on potential savings. One example is our investment in 
high-efficiency motors, replacing the electric motors of exhausters, 
vacuum systems, air conditioners, air compressors, fan coils, and older 
production equipment with more efficient, economical motors, lead-
ing to energy savings and a less negative environmental impact. 60 
such motors have been selected for replacement in three waves until 
fiscal year 2024, with the total investment of about €100,000 financed 
through the internal carbon fee. On average, each replaced motor con-
tributes to 8.5% of energy savings, with the scheme expected to avoid 
57 tons of CO2e per year and recover some €195,000 of savings within 
ten years.
The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 8A day in the life of  
five colleagues at one 
of the world’s leading 
energy technology 
companies
From 4:30 p.m. in India to 8:00 a.m. in Brazil, five Siemens Energy experts give 
us a snapshot of their work on a single day around the world. Meet Jaydeep 
Naha, Judith Osthues, Benjamin Dahn, Tatiana Novis Lopes Gil, and Sarah 
Tabet. Working in different time zones, societies, and disciplines, they all agree 
on one thing: We’re here to make a difference. Sustainability is our business. 
With their jobs, they are aiming to drive the energy transition step by step.
Snapshots of five Siemens Energy experts 
on a chosen day around the world
01:00 p.m. 
Mülheim, Germany
01:00 p.m. 
Berlin, Germany
04:30 p.m. 
Gurugram, India
03:00 p.m.
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
08:00 a.m.
Jundiaí, Brazil
The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 9The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 10
Strategic focus  121Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 10Siemens Energy at a glance
Our company structure
In May 2022, Siemens Energy announced its tender offer to acquire all 
remaining shares in Siemens Gamesa. The tender offer concluded in 
December 2022, and following a corresponding purchase order, Siemens 
Energy held around 98% of Siemens Gamesa shares. In June 2023, the 
minority shareholders of Siemens Gamesa approved a capital reduction, 
thus paving the way for the company’s full integration into Siemens 
Energy, which now holds 100% of the Siemens Gamesa shares.At Siemens Energy, our mission is to support our customers in transition-
ing to a more sustainable world based on our innovative technologies and 
our ability to turn ideas into reality. Our goal is to become the world’s lead-
ing energy technology company with a focus on sustainability. Our portfo-
lio, extensive energy experience, and ambitious strategy to decarbonize 
global energy systems are all central to our efforts to be a valued partner 
and driver of the energy transition.
Siemens Energy is one of the largest suppliers of technology in the energy 
and electricity sector, serving the entire scope of the energy market. With 
our broad portfolio of products, solutions, and services, we cover almost 
the entire energy value chain – from low- or zero-emission power genera-
tion, transmission, and storage to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emis-
sions and optimizing energy consumption in industrial processes, comple-
mented by a wide range of training and service offers.
This portfolio allows us to address the different speeds at which the energy 
transition is moving forward. As of September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy 
employs about 96,000 people in more than 90 countries worldwide. Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 50~ 31Revenue
(in billions of €)
~ 112Order backlog
(in billions of €)Key financial indicators Key financial indicators Fiscal year
(in billions of €) 2023 2022
Orders 50.4 38.3
Order backlog 111.6 97.4
Revenue 31.1 29.0Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 11Siemens Energy changed its corporate and reporting structure as of fiscal 
year 2023. As a result, the former Divisions of the reportable segment Gas 
and Power (GP) have been newly structured into Gas Services (GS), Grid 
Technologies (GT), and Transformation of Industry (TI), which together 
with Siemens Gamesa now form the four Business Areas of the Siemens 
Energy Group. GS, GT, and Siemens Gamesa are reportable segments, 
while TI is subject to voluntary reporting. 
• The Business Area Gas Services (GS) bundles all business activities 
related to gas turbines, large steam turbines, large generators, and heat 
pumps, including instrumentation and controls. The portfolio includes 
products, solutions, and services for central and distributed power gen-
eration. Its business centers around servicing the installed fleet of gas and steam turbines, with a comprehensive service portfolio that covers 
maintenance services, performance enhancements, operations ser -
vices, digitalization services (e.g., cyber security), and professional con-
sulting.
• Grid Technologies (GT) focuses its business activities on the key market 
trends of digitalization, decarbonization, and electrification. Through its 
products, systems, solutions, and services, GT solves the challenges 
arising from the increasing complexity of grid infrastructures as a result 
of the integration of renewables and the trend toward distributed power 
generation. The product portfolio includes high-voltage direct current 
transmission systems, offshore windfarm grid connections, flexible AC 
transmission systems, high-voltage substations, air- and gas-insulated Our company structure
Gas Services Siemens Gamesa Transformation  
of IndustryGrid Technologies switchgear, transformers, digital grid solutions and components, as well 
as storage solutions.
• Transformation of Industry  (TI) comprises four non-reportable operat-
ing segments that are referred to as independently managed busi-
nesses: Sustainable Energy Systems (SES), Electrification, Automation, 
Digitalization (EAD), Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (STG), and 
Compression (CP). The activities of the Business Area primarily focus on 
reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in indus-
trial processes, supporting industrial customers in reducing their carbon 
footprint, and shaping their decarbonization journey. TI offers inte-
grated systems and solutions across various process industries (e.g., oil 
and gas, chemicals, petrochemicals, fiber) and the maritime sector. The 
portfolio of TI includes electrolyzers, industrial steam turbines up to 250 
MW, industrial generators, turbo and reciprocating compressors includ-
ing compression trains, systems, and solutions as well as services for 
the full portfolio.
• The Business Area Siemens Gamesa  offers onshore and offshore wind 
turbines as well as services over the entire life cycle of wind turbines. Its 
service business consists of managing, operating, and maintaining wind 
farms.
After the full integration of Siemens Gamesa, we aim to align all manage-
ment approaches on sustainability topics. In this Sustainability Report, we 
will highlight areas where approaches still differ.Siemens EnergyAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 12• Our business aims to contribute to combating climate change and 
economic resilience
• We aim to be the partner of choice for the global energy transition, 
reconciling business needs and regulatory demands
• We strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to achieve net zero 
across the entire value chain
Our world is facing an ever-increasing need for a reliable and affordable 
energy supply to support economic development and ensure stable soci-
eties. But this stability is threatened by a number of major challenges. The 
war in Ukraine continues to disturb global markets by disrupting supply 
chains, affecting market conditions for procuring important raw materials, 
and causing volatility in energy prices. Meanwhile, the climate crisis has 
clearly reached emergency levels, and serious action is required if we are 
to meet the Paris Agreement target of limiting the global temperature rise 
to 1.5°C. This shows the urgent need to invest in renewable energy on a 
global scale, with a potential for business opportunities for companies like 
Siemens Energy. The World Energy Investment 2022 report by the Interna-
tional Energy Agency predicts that we will need investments from private 
and public investors to the tune of more than $2 trillion annually until 
2030 – more than 50% up from today.
With our portfolio that spans the energy value chain as well as with our 
global setup, we are in a unique position to shape the energy transition and support global development toward net zero. However, to achieve 
this, it is key that we set the course today to be prepared for the future. For 
fiscal year 2023, our primary aim is to stabilize the company, support the 
full integration of Siemens Gamesa, and implement the targets we have 
set ourselves on, for example, decarbonization. Business resilience is 
therefore one of the most relevant objectives of Siemens Energy’s sustain-
ability management.
Our strategy for the energy transition
With the new operating model that went effective on October 1, 2022,  
we are setting the necessary conditions to become an integrated com-
pany: less hierarchy, more accountability, and a stronger focus on project 
excellence allow us to make faster decisions and address our customers’ 
unique needs. To achieve this, we have established a comprehensive struc-
ture with clear business accountability and fewer portfolio overlaps, a uni-
fied go-to-market approach, and a new Project Entity to execute complex 
projects.
The electricity and energy markets are experiencing transformational 
change, and Siemens Energy may benefit from public investment pro-
grams to support this transformation. We are driving sustainability across 
our portfolio and operations to support our customers and, ultimately, societies in transitioning to a more sustainable world. We believe in an 
energy transition based on renewables and a strong grid infrastructure 
backbone, while also leveraging low-emission conventional power for 
peak loads and reducing energy consumption by driving efficiency 
improvements in industry.
We will continue our journey toward a sustainable portfolio that will drive 
profitable growth for our company. Based on our three strategic pillars, i.e.,
• low- or zero-emission power generation,
• transport and storage of electricity, and
• reducing the GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial  
processes,
which are fundamental to achieving this goal, we are continuously devel-
oping new products and technologies that have either zero emissions or 
significantly lower emissions than comparable technologies. We focus on 
the following levers: 
• Expand renewables: Our Business Area Siemens Gamesa plays an 
essential role in the transition to zero-emission power generation and 
supports governmental wind energy capacity targets around the world. 
In addition, we support the development of a circular economy in the 
wind industry with our RecyclableBlade and GreenerTower technologies.Strategic focus 
From our perspective, sustainable energy is key to overcoming the climate crisis and a critical driver 
for future growth and prosperity. That is why sustainability is at the core of our company strategy, 
making us more resilient and guiding our transformation.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 13• Transform conventional power: We believe in an energy transition 
that prepares existing power generation assets for a sustainable future 
to ensure the stability of our electricity grids. Our Business Area Gas Ser -
vices is supporting this goal by focusing on turbines in peaker functions, 
coupled with our research and development (R&D) target of 100% H2 
co-firing capability by 2030 and the utilization of carbon capture tech-
nology.
• Strengthen electricity grids: We are committed to strengthening elec-
tricity grids around the world to support the renewable energy build-out 
and electrification needed for a carbon-free society. To achieve this, we 
are developing new products, services, and solutions for the transport 
and storage of electricity, and are supporting the ban of harmful PFAS 
F-gases in electrical equipment.
• Drive industry decarbonization: We aim to help our process industry 
customers become more energy efficient and less carbon-intensive by 
realizing sustainable concepts for their brownfield facilities and future 
installations as well as electrification solutions such as heat pumps as a 
first step in their decarbonization journey. To make fuel-switching more 
attractive, we are supporting the hydrogen economy with our electro-
lyzers and solutions for integrated energy systems.
• Secure supply chains: We are bundling supply chain expertise in our 
global functions to ensure access to critical components and minerals, 
monitor and manage supply chain risk exposure, and control upstream 
emissions of our products. 
With our global functions, our goal is to deliver value every year and 
advance our sustainability agenda. We set global standards, including on 
sustainability, for projects within our Project Entity.Our market view
While macroeconomic uncertainties remain, we are expecting our address-
able market to grow by 6% per year from €154 billion in 2022 to €213 bil-
lion in 2028. Due to investment programs in the U.S., namely the Inflation 
Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well as the EU’s Net 
Zero Industrial Act and REPowerEU, the EU’s energy security strategy, we 
are expecting the North American and European markets to make up >50% 
of our addressable market by 2028. 
In accordance with our ambition to become a leader in sustainability in the 
industry, we have incorporated climate considerations in our market evalu-
ation and strategy process. This included the use of three market scenarios 
with the resulting climate outcomes for our market evaluation process for 
the first time in fiscal year 2023. In addition, as another first during this 
¹ Source: IEA Net Zero Scenario.fiscal year, we developed a detailed annual forecast of our CO2 emission 
footprint of products sold per Business Area until 2030 building on our 
business planning (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
About $2.8 trillion are set to be invested in energy globally in 2023, of 
which more than $1.7 trillion are expected to go to clean technologies – 
including renewables, electric vehicles, nuclear power, grids, storage, 
low-emission fuels, efficiency improvements, and heat pumps – according 
to the IEA’s latest World Energy Investment report.¹ At Siemens Energy, we 
aim to be in a leading market position in each of our Business Areas, with a 
clear focus on innovation to develop new technologies that foster the 
energy transition. We spent roughly €1.1 billion on R&D each year over the 
past three years (see chapter 	Customers and innovation ).A first in transporting green energy
After three years under construction, the offshore converter station  
DolWin kappa, the world’s first offshore platform equipped with state-of-
the-art gas-insulated direct current switchgear, has been successfully 
installed in the North Sea in summer 2022. DolWin kappa is located 45 km 
away from the coast of Lower Saxony and is part of the TenneT’s 900-MW 
DolWin6 grid connection system that will supply more than one million 
households with green wind power from the German North Sea. The Dol-
Win6 grid connection with the offshore converter station, which includes 
a high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission system and a direct cur -
rent compact switchgear from Siemens Energy, was commissioned at the 
end of September 2023.
Successful installation in the North Sea: Providing more than 1 million house-
holds with green wind power.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 14• Product maturity and cost security in the short term: dedicated working 
groups address product maturity for Siemens Gamesa 5.X platform and 
aim to reduce non-conformance costs across the whole portfolio.
• Margin growth in the medium term: developing sales, increasing prod-
uct competitiveness, streamlining the organization, and using capital 
efficiently. 
• Maximizing the company’s potential in the long term: portfolio analysis 
to allow for standardization, a revised operating model, and supply 
chain consolidations.
An important step for Mistral was taken in January 2023, when the new 
Siemens Gamesa operating model was introduced with a stronger focus 
on processes to improve organizational efficiency and effectiveness.
During fiscal year 2023, although Mistral continues to move forward with 
the stabilization of operations in the short term and to build the path to 
profitability, the latest events related to increases in failure rates of wind 
turbine components have led us to initiate an extended technical review of 
the installed fleet and product design. This is complemented by a holistic 
strategic review that we are currently carrying out.
Reaching for net zero
In May 2022, we announced that we would complement our climate action 
targets with the long-term ambition to become net zero across the value 
chain in all greenhouse gases (see chapter 	Decarbonization ). This will, 
among other things, require adjustments in our portfolio such as further 
SF6-free products, the shift to green hydrogen, the development of battery 
energy storage, and the development of climate-neutral supply chains and 
modes of transportation. We no longer participate in new tenders for 
power plants that will run exclusively on coal, but we will still meet the 
existing commitments for coal-fired power plant projects, including bind-
ing offers submitted at the time of this decision in November 2020. Also to Our progress
The success of our strategy is visible along several key business para-
meters:
• We increased our order intake by 34% comp.² versus fiscal year 2022 to 
reach a record backlog of €112 billion while reducing our Scope 3 emis-
sions from the use of products sold by 12% compared to fiscal year 2022
• We have increased our revenue by 10% comp.² versus fiscal year 2022
• We are actively shaping our portfolio by allocating 24% of our R&D 
expenditures to our five current fields of action (see chapter 	Custom-
ers and innovation )
• 37.5% of our revenue in fiscal year 2023 was EU Taxonomy-eligible and 
-aligned (see chapter 	Decarbonization )
Across our businesses, Siemens Energy is addressing the sustainability of 
power generation, the coal-to-gas shift, the decentralization of energy 
supply, the transformation of existing infrastructure to serve a more sus-
tainable world, and the support of industries for more energy efficiency 
and decarbonization. With our combined expertise, we aim to be the part-
ner of choice for the energy transition.
As part of its long-term strategy, Siemens Gamesa introduced “Mistral” 
during fiscal year 2022, a program that covers all areas of the business and 
prepares Siemens Gamesa to meet the predicted high demand in the wind 
energy industry. It is designed to lead Siemens Gamesa toward sustainable 
and profitable growth.
Mistral addresses challenges that, despite the positive market outlook, hit 
wind equipment manufacturers, such as rising raw material and commod-
ity prices, supply chain disruptions, internal process delays, and high pro-
duction costs. Three core actions in Mistral were introduced and are taking 
place over three time frames: Transforming the oil & gas sector with bio-methanol
Siemens Energy and The Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC) have 
showcased an SGT-A20 gas turbine running on 100% bio-methanol. The 
world’s first test of its kind, conducted in February at the RWG test facil-
ity in Aberdeen, demonstrated that methanol is a viable alternative 
fuel. The demonstration test showed a reduction in NOX emissions of 
80% as well as a reduction in CO, SOX and the elimination of smoke in 
the exhaust. There are various forms of methanol where bio-methanol 
reduces CO2 emissions by up to 75% (compared to a diesel baseline) and 
e-methanol is carbon neutral. The SGT-A20 test demonstrated a retrofit-
table solution to enable the use of methanol as a low-carbon alterna-
tive fuel in the offshore oil and gas industry. By modifying existing 
assets and testing innovative technologies and fuels, we believe there is 
potential to transform the existing oil and gas sector, protect and create 
jobs, and show that immediate changes can reduce emissions.
Gas turbine powered by a hundred percent methanol.
² Comparable: excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 15be continued are CO2-reducing service and solutions business as well as 
combined heat and power (CHP) projects. In November 2022, we divested 
our gas engine business to Mutares. Beyond portfolio-related measures, 
we engage with our suppliers to drive the reduction of Scope 3 upstream 
emissions.
To mitigate the impact of climate change, we must begin to decarbonize 
our energy systems and electrify industry now. For the short to medium 
term, power generation with natural gas will play a central role as a bridg-
ing fuel. With our gas turbine business, we support our customers with 
low- or zero-emission power generation technology. For example, in the 
Stockholm Exergi project, a gas turbine plant with an SGT-800 gas turbine 
is planned to run on 100% green liquid fuel by 2025. Another example is 
the Mintia project in Romania: our latest HL-class gas turbine technology in 
combined cycle configuration will replace the capacity of the old coal-fired 
Mintia power plant and reduce emissions by more than 50% when com-
pleted.
We are committed to shaping our future portfolio by strategically reallo-
cating R&D capital to solutions that help reduce GHG emissions from  
the use of sold products, as part of the strategic portfolio management 
process.Digitalization
Digitalization is one of the key levers to help the energy industry in its 
ongoing transition. At Siemens Energy, we are combining our deep domain 
knowledge with the power of data to accelerate sustainability solutions to
• optimize consumption in our installed equipment: this combines our 
deep domain expertise of the equipment and advanced analytics tech-
niques;
• improve the flexibility of generation assets: for example, we developed 
a software solution for a power plant consisting of turbines (gas and/or 
steam), generators, and supporting balance-of-plant equipment that 
can reduce annual natural gas consumption by 0.33%;
• accelerate sustainability: new computing capabilities allow us to accel-
erate simulations of how new technologies will behave; and
•  protect from cybersecurity threats: use technology to detect and 
respond to cyber threats targeting critical energy assets (see chapter  
	Customers and innovation ).
The common thread in all these approaches is our capability to simulate 
the impacts of complete energy systems. This allows us to design energy 
systems to satisfy demand with minimum emissions. We can then operate 
with the optimum combination of renewable and fossil fuel sources, while 
minimizing degradation of individual units of equipment.More sustainable decisions
As a company with a strong focus on sustainability, we consider it essential 
to integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria in our 
decisions. We have included a mandatory sustainability component in our 
qualification for suppliers with a purchasing volume above €10,000 for 
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) and within high-risk coun-
tries for Siemens Gamesa. Furthermore, we conduct ESG due diligence in 
sales (see chapter 	Customers and innovation ). We also developed a sus-
tainability checklist for our merger and acquisition activities and imple-
mented a mandatory consultation of strategy and sustainability experts.
In fiscal year 2023, we developed ESG guidance that was included in the 
strategic R&D planning process and applied our ESG scoring methodology 
to selected R&D projects on heat pumps and fuel cells. We are currently 
working on an evaluation approach for venture activities, taking ESG crite-
ria such as climate impacts into consideration. Furthermore, in capital 
expenditure (CapEx) projects at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) involving a large investment sum, it is a mandatory requirement 
to evaluate the projects’ GHG impact using a CO2 shadow price of €100 per 
metric ton of CO2 equivalents (CO2e).Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 16High impactMedium impact
Our impact on the  
Sustainable Development Goals
SDGs we have medium and high impact on.Our commitment to sustainability
We continue to anchor sustainability in our corporate strategy. We aim to 
become the integrated energy company of the future – combining a global 
and local approach with solutions along the complete value chain and a 
focus on sustainability. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) guide us in our ambition to become a sustainability leader in 
the industry. To ensure our efforts have the biggest possible impact, we 
focus on five SDGs:
• To achieve SDG 5 “Gender Equality,” we are striving to create equal 
opportunities, in the firm belief that not just our company but society as 
a whole can benefit from inclusion and diversity.
• By providing reliable, cost-effective, and sustainable energy for our cus-
tomers, we are contributing to SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy.”
• We cover SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth” with the innova-
tive power of our global operations, which stimulate economic develop-
ment in many countries and create decent, future-proof jobs.
• Meanwhile, our products, services, and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide contribute to SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation 
and Infrastructure.”
• We enact SDG 13 “Climate Action” by helping our customers reduce GHG 
emissions and working toward a net zero goal across the value chain.
We also acknowledge a medium impact on SDGs 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 14, and 17.Our Sustainability Program
Our Sustainability Program focuses on the most relevant topics that help 
us achieve our ambition to become a sustainability leader in the industry 
while contributing to selected SDGs. It is also oriented toward our compa-
ny’s purpose, “We energize society.”
To establish the Sustainability Program, we conducted a materiality analy -
sis in fiscal year 2020 to identify topics of relevance for business and soci-
ety by engaging in dialogue with selected internal and external stakehold-
ers. The key sustainability issues for our company serve, among other 
things, as a basis for reporting. We repeated this materiality analysis in fis-
cal year 2021 and in fiscal year 2023 to reflect the opinions of relevant 
external stakeholder groups such as customers, investors, and partners.
Our most recent materiality analysis was conducted as a double materiality 
analysis to reflect the upcoming requirements of the Corporate Sustain-
ability Reporting Directive (CSRD). We mapped the topics along the entire 
value chain and conducted surveys and interviews with external and inter -
nal experts to identify and assess the material topics. The result confirmed 
that the most relevant topics for Siemens Energy are energy use and effi-
ciency as well as greenhouse gas emissions. Those two are followed by 
several topics that we see as enablers to drive decarbonization. The results 
of the impact materiality assessment will be used for our reporting in 
accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI). Applying a threshold of 1.5 on the impact assess-
ment leads to a smaller selection of topics that are of relevance for the GRI: 
energy use and efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, responsible sourc-
ing, and innovative partnerships and collaborations.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 17For the remaining topics below the threshold, we then interviewed inter -
nal experts in the respective fields to cover strategically relevant topics 
that mirror our sustainability ambition and ensure continuity in business 
reporting. Based on the experts’ judgment, we identified six additional 
topics (see table below).
As a result of this process, the number of topics was reduced from twen-
ty-two to ten, and the names and definitions of some topics have changed. 
The changes have no material impact on our GRI reporting.
Our businesses, regional entities, and Functions are responsible for imple-
menting the Sustainability Program with a special eye on these topics. 
Details can be found in the individual chapters of this report.Impact materiality Strategic positioning and 
business reporting continuity
•  Energy use and efficiency
•  Greenhouse gas emissions
•  Responsible sourcing
•  Innovative partnerships and 
collaboration•  Talent attraction and retention
•  Equity, inclusion, and diversity
•  Occupational health and safety
•  Human rights
•  Business conduct/compliance
•  Business resilienceOur Sustainability Program
Our Sustainability Council meets on a regular basis and consists of deci-
sion-makers representing Divisions, Regional Hubs, and Functions. The 
Sustainability Council strategically oversees the implementation of the 
Sustainability Program by making decisions, setting priorities and focal 
points where needed, providing resources for implementation, and serv -
ing as sustainability ambassadors both inside and outside of Siemens 
Energy. Our CEO, Christian Bruch, chairs the Council in his role as CSO.
The Vice President of Sustainability manages the Sustainability depart-
ment, which is responsible for driving sustainability within Siemens 
Energy and for coordinating company-wide sustainability activities, pro-
grams, and measures. The “Strategy & Sustainability” function reports 
directly to the CEO/CSO, who also reviews and approves the annual sus-
tainability report.
Furthermore, we have the goal to ensure all sustainability measures and 
initiatives are anchored in our organization and business activities. The 
respective organizational units have nominated Sustainability Business 
Partners who implement the company program in their areas of responsi-
bility.Implementing and managing the Sustainability 
Program 
All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), 
who is also the CEO of our company. Sustainability is a regular topic on the 
agenda of Executive Board meetings, Supervisory Board meetings, and in 
wider leadership meetings.
Since the beginning of fiscal year 2023, we have a committee within our 
Supervisory Board: the Sustainability and Finance Committee (formerly 
Innovation and Finance Committee), chaired by Joe Kaeser, Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG. The committee addresses 
sustainability issues. It prepares resolutions of the Supervisory Board on 
the company’s financial situation and resources, especially on the annual 
budget, on investments, and on financial measures. It resolves certain 
transactions and measures for which the Executive Board requires 
approval. It also regularly addresses the company’s naming, branding, and 
design concept. In August 2023, the Supervisory Board underwent training 
on sustainability topics.We  
energize  
societyDecarbonizing
our business
Responsible
operations•  Climate-neutral own  
operations
• Product stewardship• Employee engagement
•  Conservation of resources•  Net zero products,  
services, and solutions
• Societal engagement• Human rights• Compliance & integrity•  Decarbonized supply chain
• People development• Inclusion & diversity•  Occupational health & safetyAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 18To help implement sustainability across the company and increase trans-
parency on our performance, we are currently setting up an ESG data man-
agement solution with the aim to collect and process ESG data and use it 
for strategic forecasting. We are confident that this will reduce the manual effort required to gather data, increase data quality, and allow for internal 
benchmarking as well as steering to reach our sustainability targets. The 
pilot project focuses on Scope 3 downstream emission data in the busi-
ness, since we consider this to be our most impactful use case (see chapter 
	Decarbonization ).
Increasingly, ESG performance indicators are being used in sustainable 
financing constructs, such as green bonds or revolving credit facilities. In 
fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy established a Green Bond Framework and 
issued a green bond to refinance the existing debt of Siemens Gamesa.
The importance of sustainability for Siemens Energy is also reflected in our 
long-term equity-based compensation. This is granted to the members of 
the Executive Board and selected senior executives in the form of stock 
awards for reaching non-financial targets in strategic ESG areas of Siemens 
Energy operations (for more information, please see our  Siemens Energy  
Annual Report 2023, Compensation Report .
Siemens Gamesa’s sustainability approach will be integrated in the 
Siemens Energy Sustainability Program in the months to come, with tar -
gets to be aligned step by step.
We are rated by various ESG rating agencies, such as ISS ESG, Sustainalytics, 
MSCI ESG, and CDP. The results show that we are on track with our Sustain-
ability Program and in achieving our targets. We welcome these ratings as 
objective assessments of our organization and as a means of identifying 
areas for improvement. For more information on the ESG ratings and rank -
ings of GS, GT, and TI, please visit our corporate website. Information on 
Siemens Gamesa’s latest ESG ratings is available on its website.
Stakeholder engagement and collaborations
We firmly believe that sustainable development can only be achieved 
through the cooperation of a wide range of stakeholders. Regular dialogue 
about the issues that affect our business and society is central to our sus-tainability strategy. This approach is in line with SDG 17, which calls for a 
global partnership that brings together governments, civil society, the pri-
vate sector, the UN, and other stakeholders.
Working together on the complex challenges we are facing can lead to bet-
ter innovation and business outcomes that also benefit society. Siemens 
Energy is participating, for example, in the Hydrogen Council, a global 
CEO-led initiative with the ambition for hydrogen to foster the clean 
energy transition. Using its global reach to promote collaboration between 
governments, industry, and investors, the council provides guidance on 
accelerating the deployment of hydrogen solutions around the world.
In China, Siemens Energy collaborated with the Shanghai Electrical Appa-
ratus Manufactures Trade Association (SEAMTA), the country’s leading 
power transmission industry association, on initiating and publishing the 
first association standard for environmentally friendly gas-insulated 
switchgear for offshore wind turbines. Key players in the offshore wind 
power industry, such as design institutes, wind power manufacturers, and 
grid companies, are members of SEAMTA.
Siemens Gamesa engages with Wind Europe, the voice of the wind indus-
try, which aims to promote wind energy across Europe. More than 500 
members from the entire wind energy value chain come together to dis-
cuss new regulations, increase awareness and acceptance, and work on 
supply chain initiatives, for example.
The exchange of knowledge through these engagements creates value  
on all sides and reduces risks. At Siemens Energy, we regularly analyze 
existing partnerships and memberships and continue to establish new 
relationships with investors, customers, suppliers, employees, communi-
ties, policymakers, media, non-governmental organizations, business 
organizations, and academia. We are a signatory to the  UN Global Com-
pact (UNGC) , pledging our commitment to its Ten Principles, and are a 
member of econsense, the German sustainability network.Rating scores
 in industry low risk rating: 
13.6 top industry list
2022: #7 of 218
low risk rating: 16.5# 8 of 276 
scale of AAA to CCC
2022: AA
scale of A to D
2022: BB
75/100
2022: Gold (69/100)Gold 1st decile rank in industry
2022: B- (1st decile)B- prime
scale 1 to 5
Member of FTSE4Good index
2022: 3.83.9 Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 19We actively engage with political bodies, such as selected government think 
tanks and intergovernmental organizations. In Nigeria, for example, our 
engagement with the Presidential Power Initiative (PPI) led our CEO to meet 
with Nigeria’s president, the Energy Ministry, and local stakeholders to dis-
cuss how we can strengthen our support to resolve the challenges in the 
power sector and expand the capacity for future power needs. As part of 
our partnership with the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), 
Siemens Energy is participating in the Alliance for Industry Decarboniza-
tion, which we announced together in September 2022. The objective is to 
foster industry-level dialogue and increase cooperation to help companies 
develop sound decarbonization strategies and implementation plans.
In fiscal year 2023, we continued our “Energy Weeks” and “Energy Talks” 
conferences, with which we promote discussion on the challenges and opportunities of the energy transition and of the decarbonization of 
energy systems, together with market leaders, policymakers, and govern-
ment representatives from around the world.
During those events, we also surveyed more than 2,000 energy experts 
about the importance of having a set of key energy priorities. We asked 
them about the progress their regions had made on the energy transition 
and then used this data to calculate the “Energy Transition Readiness 
Index” – a percentage indicating the perceived readiness for the transition 
to net zero for each of the five regions selected (Asia Pacific, Middle East 
and Africa, Latin America, North America, and Europe), which we summa-
rized into a Global Energy Transition Readiness Index Report. All five 
regional reports and the global report can be found on our  Energy Transi-
tion Readiness website .Business resilience
In order to deal with the manifold challenges many companies are facing 
in the current global business climate, we deem it important to acknowl-
edge the risks and opportunities that arise from our exposure to disrup-
tions and their effects on our business – as well as the impact we have in 
mitigating and adapting to climate change risks (both transitional and 
physical) with a resilient business and sustainable portfolio. 
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities
To provide a comprehensive view of our business activities, we analyze 
risks and opportunities by combining bottom-up and top-down 
approaches. Sustainability-related risks and opportunities are identified by 
the respective management of our organizational units. Our Enterprise 
Shareholders and  
capital marketEmployees Customers Suppliers Politics, associations,  
civil societyBanks,  
financial institutions
Formats of  
engagementStakeholder 
group
Topics we 
engage onQuarterly earnings calls, 
Annual Report, annual share-
holder's meeting,  
regular roadshows and con-
ference participation, investor 
relations website
Sustainability Program and 
targets, sustainable portfo-
lio, energy transition, social 
engagement, and corporate 
governance topicsAll hands meetings, open 
sessions between leaders and 
employees (ask me anything), 
location visits, letters by Board 
Members, emails, training 
sessions, Yammer communi-
cation, awards
Health & safety, culture, inclu-
sion & diversity, innovation, 
employee development, com-
pany strategy and organiza-
tional topicsConferences, trade fairs, bilat-
eral engagement, question-
naires (e.g., EcoVadis, NQC)
Decarbonization roadmaps, 
Sustainability Program, prod-
uct-related topics,  
project due diligenceInitiatives (e.g., Responsible 
Minerals Initiative), supplier 
days, workshops, bilateral 
engagement
sustainability risk and per -
formance, decarbonization, 
responsible minerals sourcingUN Global Compact, industry -
specific forums and confer -
ences, local engagement, par -
ticipation in One Young World 
summit, industry associations, 
direct governmental contacts 
(ministries, parliament, etc.)
Sustainability, decarboniza-
tion, energy security, global 
challenges, business supportMandatory reporting and 
information (e.g., Annual 
Report, Sustainability Report), 
bilateral meetings (know your 
customer process)
Sustainability performance, 
specific KPIs for ESG-linked 
financingStakeholder engagementAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 20Risk Management (ERM) system takes a net-risk approach and aims to 
ensure that the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are fully 
informed about significant risks on time.
In fiscal year 2022, we further developed the ERM system to better reflect 
the long-term effects of climate change on Siemens Energy by adding a 
“Climate” category to the four existing reporting categories. This allowed 
us to expand the conventional three-year, short-term reporting scope to 
mid-term (3–5 years) and long-term (5–30 years) climate-related risks, 
improving our understanding of the development of climate-related risks 
over time. While assessing the impact of a risk, we need to consider how 
quickly it would affect the organization and how resilient the organization 
would be should it occur. Therefore, vulnerability (i.e., the susceptibility of 
a company in terms of its adaptive and coping capacity regarding a specific 
risk) and velocity (speed of a specific risk impacting the organization upon 
occurrence) are fundamental characteristics to be considered, in particular 
when assessing transitional and physical climate-related risks.
For fiscal year 2023, the following risks with a significant relevance to sus-
tainability were reported within the ERM system:
• Threat of business interruption and data leakage due to cyber attack
• Critical supply chain
• Market and price development (including the shift from conventional to 
renewable energy in the markets)• Technology/portfolio gap compared to competitors
• Climate change and decarbonization trend
• Adverse environment, health, and safety (EHS) events
• Talent attraction and retention
• Adverse developments in financial and banking markets (including 
financing restrictions due to sustainability requirements)
• Requirements arising from ESG standards
• Alleged compliance violations
For further information on these risks, please refer to the  Siemens Energy 
Annual Report 2023, Report on the internal control and risk management sys-
tem and material risks and opportunities . A detailed description of cli-
mate-related risks and opportunities can be found in our Task Force for Cli-
mate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section in the 	Annex .
We are continually taking steps to reduce our sustainability-related risk 
exposure within the organization and across the value chain by imple-
menting risk management systems adapted to specific industries and 
responsibilities. On the other hand, risk mitigation actions also represent 
opportunities for our business, for example innovations that support the 
energy transition and streamlining of internal processes.
With ongoing developments in national and international reporting 
requirements, we collaborate both internally and with external partners on 
analyzing new regulations and standards, voicing our position on them in cross-industrial associations, and assessing their importance for and 
effects on Siemens Energy. One example of this is our participation in the 
Sustainable Finance Advisory Committee of the German Federal Govern-
ment, which aims to turn Germany into a leading location for sustainable 
finance.
Webinar to boost support for African start-ups
Siemens Energy Ventures teamed up with Microsoft for Startups 
to host an Energize.Africa webinar in May 2023, offering corpo-
rate support to clean energy and climate tech founders based in 
Africa. The event aimed to address challenges and pain points, 
such as early-stage funding and a lack of access to market sup-
port, while also providing attendees with a valuable opportunity 
to connect and network with other founders, industry experts, 
and potential corporate partners. Participants gained insights 
and information on the latest trends and developments in the 
industry, helping them stay up-to-date and adapt to changes. 
Founders also received guidance on accessing funding and 
investment opportunities in the clean energy and climate tech 
sector, helping them gain the tools they need to grow their busi-
nesses and develop new solutions.
Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 21Decarbonizing our business
Summary page 22
Customers and innovation 23
Featured expert: Innovation  28
Decarbonization  30
Featured expert: Climate Action 392The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 22Summary page
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast, and  
unified approach to R&D has three elements:57 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.1  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize,  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030Net zero  
supply chainNet zero  
products, services,  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is based on our aspiration 
to reach net zero across the entire value chain, in line with the 1.5°C target.
Target reduction  
of Scope 1 + 2  
GHG emissions³  
by 2025:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018. ³ base year 2019. ⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa). ⁵ Target year 2030.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 19%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions⁵ 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 57%Status 59% Status 27%
Status 100%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 23• Company culture based on innovation for the benefit of customers 
and the planet
• R&D based on intense cooperation, both within Siemens Energy  
and with external partners
• Cybersecurity management aims to ensure that our products,  
solutions, and services meet the highest demands 
Our mission continues to be to support our customers in transitioning to a 
more sustainable world. We do this by providing technologies for a sus-
tainable, affordable, and reliable energy supply and by our ability to turn 
ideas into reality. The global energy sector is transforming, with many of 
our customers facing long-term, disruptive changes to their business mod-
els, benefiting environmentally friendly energy supply. In addition, advanc-
ing digitalization, the need for decarbonization, and increasingly decen-
tralized energy production are leading to more competition, more 
complexity, and less predictability throughout the industry. We are pursu-
ing new business opportunities in electrification, renewable energy, green 
hydrogen, grid modernization and resilience, energy storage, and pow -
er-to-X technologies as a consequence of these developments.In taking this action, Siemens Energy contributes to the following SDGs: 
SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy,” SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic 
Growth,” SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure,” SDG 12 “Respon-
sible Consumption and Production,” and SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
Our company culture is based on innovation, a common mission, and 
trust. Across the company, our mindset is guided by four main values: car -
ing, accountability, respect, and agility. We communicate openly and 
authentically with one another because we see this as the foundation for 
successful innovation.
Solutions that continue to serve our customers
We support our customers along the entire energy value chain with our 
integrated energy technologies and our ability to connect the dots 
between our offers, regions, and industries. We bridge a wide range of 
industries and foster the transfer of know-how between them – from 
power generation through to transmission and storage.We are increasing our customer focus, transparency, and accountability. 
The account management system and go-to-market approach, which is 
an integral part of our new operating model, has been operationalized in 
our process and system landscape. The approach sets out clear responsi-
bilities for Business Areas, Regional Hubs, and Corporate Functions to fos-
ter transparency, simplify processes, and speed up our service (see chap-
ter 	Siemens Energy at a glance ). To foster responsible business practices 
in our customer projects, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) 
has implemented an ESG due diligence approach early in the sales pro-
cess. This helps identify and evaluate human rights and environmental 
risks in our projects, while also determining appropriate risk mitigation 
measures.
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) uses the Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) to measure customer satisfaction by asking the question, “How likely 
is it that you would recommend Siemens Energy to a colleague or business 
partner?” In fiscal year 2023, we conducted a total of approximately 4,300 
NPS interviews and received an NPS result of 57 (the 2022 result was 46).1 
This result is a combination of the results from the global annual Customer 
Insight Survey and the project-related operational surveys conducted 
throughout the year. We are pleased with the clear progress demonstrated 
in our NPS score, which indicates improved customer satisfaction.
The individual businesses evaluate the specific responses, follow up with 
the customers personally, and take the necessary steps to improve the  
customers’ experience (e.g., process amendments, training measures). 
Siemens Gamesa has its own organizational setup.Innovative partnerships and collaboration are essential elements in 
developing our broad range of innovative technologies. They offer our 
customers tailor-made energy solutions and at the same time contribute 
to sustainable development.Customers and innovation
¹ NPS ranges from -100 to +100, subtracting % of scores between 1-6 (Detractors) from % of scores of 9-10 (Promoters).Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 24Innovation that continues to make a difference
The world and our customers need innovative, sustainable solutions for 
the energy systems of the future. Beyond its focus on decarbonization, our 
Business Areas Gas Services (GS), Grid Technologies (GT), and Transforma-
tion of Industry (TI) are also developing a set of criteria to screen our inno-
vation portfolio for further sustainability risks and opportunities. These 
criteria are based on EU Taxonomy criteria, our focus on SDGs, and further 
internationally established frameworks, such as the Paris Agreement.
Ramping up electrolyzer production for hydrogen and e-methanol
Siemens Energy is helping to accelerate renewable hydrogen production 
worldwide by scaling up the production of large-scale electrolyzers. In a 
joint venture with Air Liquide, we continued the construction of a 
multi-gigawatt factory for our electrolysis stacks in Berlin. Based on proton 
exchange membrane electrolysis technology, these stacks will be highly 
efficient and ideally suited to harvest volatile renewable energy. Once 
completed, the factory will supply stacks to both companies for their 
respective customer bases and serve the rapidly growing market.
World’s first large-scale direct air capture plant to use Siemens Energy 
equipment
Siemens Energy compressors will be used at Occidental’s first large-scale 
direct air capture (DAC) plant in the Permian Basin, Texas. It is being devel-
oped by 1PointFive, a subsidiary of Occidental. The two compressor pack -
ages will enable the plant to capture up to 500,000 metric tons of CO2 per 
year when fully operational. Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven 
9.6 MW fully modular wet-gas compressor package and a motor-driven 
6.3 MW dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. The equipment will com-
press the captured CO2 for additional processing and pressurize the final 
product into a pipeline for injection into underground reservoirs.1PointFive’s plant is expected to provide practical solutions that hard-to-de-
carbonize industries can use to help achieve net zero. Captured CO2 can be 
safely sequestered deep underground in saline formations or used to pro-
duce hydrocarbons to enable lower-carbon or net zero transportation fuels 
and in products like chemicals and building materials. From our point of 
view, technologies to effectively capture and sequester CO2 may be a 
necessity if the internationally agreed climate goals are to be achieved. 
Close partnerships with partners like Occidental are the basis for scaling 
up innovative solutions.
Strengthening the core, growing from the core, and transforming the future 
continue to be the three main aspects of the innovation strategy of Siemens 
Energy. We continue to develop our five current fields of action, focusing 
on energy landscape transformation and the sustainability of our portfolio.
Five current fields of action:
• Decarbonized heat and industrial processes: high-temperature heat 
pump, electrified industrial heat, fuel cells, industrial waste heat recovery
• Power-to-X: direct air capture, offshore hydrogen, e-chemicals/fuels
• Resilient grids and reliability: grid digitalization, disruptive grid ele-
ments, high-density energy systems
• Condition-based service interventions: digital twins for optimizing 
energy consumption, autonomous operation, asset/plant reliability, and 
microgrids
• Energy storage: long-duration energy storage, redox flow batteries 
We identified and selected specific technologies for short-term, mid-term, 
and long-term research and development within these levers that form the 
foundation of our simple, fast, and unified process to build business in 
support of our three strategic pillars (see chapter 	Strategic focus ).Supporting a sustainable value chain
The Clean Energy Certificate launched by Siemens Energy is 
a system to identify a product’s energy origin all along the 
value chain. With the help of distributed ledger technology, 
a blockchain ecosystem, and by digitally connecting physical 
assets, the certificate can track renewably sourced energy 
from its generation to the end-product, across borders and 
sectors. Products will automatically be tagged with a certifi-
cate, which identifies the product’s energy origin and carries 
this from source to consumption, giving customers detailed 
insight into its low-carbon intensity and other energy attri-
butes along the entire supply chain. The Clean Energy Certif-
icate system is already proving the origin of the e-fuels appli-
cation in the Porsche motorsport fleet at Haru Oni, Chile.
Certified e-fuel from wind and water at Haru Oni in Chile.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 25The Innovation Council at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) 
continues to meet quarterly with all Executive Board members, overseeing 
our activities and expenditures in the five current fields of action, our tech-
nology fields, and R&D in general. The council is still dedicated to the for -
mer GP business. The main elements for successful innovation remain 
unchanged and are of key importance in the implementation of our inno-
vation approach:
As a part of these efforts, Siemens Gamesa also focuses on its products’ 
environmental footprint. For example, it has introduced GreenerTower, 
which lowers the CO2 footprint of the related steel production by more 
than 63% compared to conventional production. RecyclableBlade, which 
was introduced in 2021 and allows blades to be recycled at the end of their 
life, has turned out to be in strong demand among our customers.
Continuous product upgrades and designs of its onshore and offshore tur -
bines to reduce the LCoE and/or increase annual energy production are 
aimed at strengthening the company’s competitiveness. For example, 
Siemens Gamesa has successfully erected a prototype for the SG14-236 
that yields 30% more energy than its predecessor.
In fiscal year 2023, across all Business Areas, Siemens Energy invested 
€1,123 million in R&D (fiscal year 2022: €1,078 million). The resulting 
research intensity, defined as the ratio of R&D expenses to revenue, was 3.6% (fiscal year 2022: 3.7%). Additions to capitalized development 
expenses amounted to €190 million (fiscal year 2022: €193 million) in fiscal 
year 2023. Around 18,700 (September 30, 2022: 18,300) patents were held 
by Siemens Energy as of September 30, 2023. On average, we had about 
4,300 (fiscal year 2022: 5,300) R&D employees in fiscal year 2023.
Innovation beyond our company borders
We know that we cannot fulfill our mission alone. Our external partner -
ships are valued for their potential to fulfil future business needs. More-
over, from our perspective, the impact of our research benefits long-term 
sustainable development as we contribute to sustainable and affordable 
energy while minimizing the environmental footprint of our products. This 
is why we strive to involve research expertise both within Siemens Energy 
and beyond.New solution to boost China’s renewable 
energy offers
To support the development of China’s green energy transition, 
Siemens Energy has introduced a customized Prefabricated 
Modular Offshore Substation (PMOS) solution for the Chinese 
offshore wind power market and operators for the first time. 
Compared to traditional solutions, the PMOS can cut the con-
struction period by up to 8 weeks and costs by up to 20%. The 
volume of the upper module can be reduced by up to 25% and 
the weight of the upper module by up to 20%. The new solution 
is being built for the Shandong Peninsula offshore U-wind field 
project by China’s State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) 
and is expected to further drive the development of China’s 
renewable energy industry.
Transportation of the prefabricated modular offshore substation for installation.
Three elements for successful innovation
We select, prioritize, and 
commit to ideas from a 
strategic perspective
Identify
Visualize
Filter & commitFocus
Prod./tech. development
Strategic partnering
Venture buildingStart-up engagementWe accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsAccelerate
We strive for tangible 
returns and measurable 
value creationSustain
Time to impact &
business case realization
Integrate into  
operative business
Assetize as appropriate
At Siemens Gamesa, R&D is focused on developing the next generation of 
technology that will lead to improved and more cost-effective products, 
solutions, and services. Siemens Gamesa endeavors to develop reliable and 
efficient wind turbines for both onshore and offshore applications to 
reduce the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) and solutions for hybridization 
that are designed to help utility customers optimize the use of renewable 
energy. We aim to ensure a fast response to dynamic market developments 
by utilizing modern innovation and design principles such as Agile, SCRUM, 
and Design Thinking. Training on such methods is accompanied by state-of-
the-art tools that support working in international teams across locations.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 26Collaboration is crucial. It allows us to collect expertise, co-create new 
technologies, and broaden our stakeholder and customer base. Our open 
innovation ecosystems at Siemens Energy are growing organically through-
out the development chain to interact with universities, obtain external 
funding, and support selected ventures and start-ups.
With this in mind, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) estab-
lished four new Global Innovation Centers in Berlin, Orlando, Abu Dhabi, 
and Shenzhen to nurture innovation and business development to drive 
the energy transformation. These are set up to co-create with customers 
and partner with start-ups, industrial partners, and universities. Ear -
ly-stage R&D topics, prototypes, and pilot applications will be explored, 
including the use of new skill sets, methods, tools, etc.
The Global Innovation Centers focus on
• accelerated innovation,
• co-creation with customers and partners, and
• closing technology gaps and accessing new business models as part of 
the newly established partnership framework.
Condition-based service interventions are one focus area of the Innovation 
Center in Orlando. Here, the Reliability Twin is tested with multiple sites in 
Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, including multiple modules of mainte-
nance optimization and anomaly detection using AI/ML. One rules-based 
predictive monitoring module from this pilot project was commercialized 
into an investor’s portfolio in October 2022.
Siemens Energy continues to cooperate with eight of the top 25 world-
ranked universities. Working together with scientists at top universities 
and research institutes worldwide, we aim to advance technologies that contribute to sustainable energy systems of the future, both in bilateral 
research and publicly funded research projects. For example, we work 
together with the Technical University of Berlin on the H2Mare flagship 
project. The intention is to produce hydrogen on the high seas, where con-
ditions are ideal for generating renewable electricity. Led by Siemens 
Energy, the consortium is a modular project consisting of multiple sub-
projects to which more than 30 partners from industry, research institutes, 
and academia are contributing.
Furthermore, since 2020, the Siemens Energy Ventures (SEV) team focuses 
on building, piloting, and investing in ventures with the potential to shape 
the sustainable, affordable, and reliable future of energy. In this start-up 
ecosystem, SEV takes a “give first” approach toward co-development, 
meaning that SEV gives its expertise and resources to selected start-ups 
first. This allows SEV to find the right mechanisms and develop the right 
mindset to support our customers, founders, and businesses to accelerate 
our collective journey to net zero. In May 2023, the SEV Venture Clienting 
team was honored by High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) with the German 
Start-up Partnering Award for the progress made since the company was 
founded.
Siemens Gamesa also collaborates on R&D initiatives for product and tech-
nology development, partnering with universities, customers, competitors, 
suppliers, design consultants, and certifying bodies. The aim is to identify 
or improve business opportunities and create win-win situations. The focus 
countries are Denmark, Spain, Germany, the UK, France, Norway, the Neth-
erlands, and India. Siemens Gamesa tracks active R&D collaborations in a 
University Relations Dashboard, which shows more than 100 collaborations 
that started or were ongoing in 2023. These cooperations range from indi-
vidual PhD programs to long-term strategic cooperations with leading uni-
versities to cross-utilize knowledge and gain access to talents.Supporting a green hydrogen start-up  
in the UK
Siemens Energy Ventures has invested in GeoPura, a UK-based 
start-up that supports customers wanting to decarbonize their 
consumption of temporary, back-up, off-grid, and grid aug-
mentation energy by providing commercially viable hydro-
gen-fueled clean energy via their Hydrogen Power Unit. Cus-
tomers including the BBC, National Grid, and Cadent can now 
transition from conventional diesel generators to green and 
clean electricity for uninterrupted operations. This investment 
and ongoing partnership will enable the creation of a full end-
to-end hydrogen value chain on a small scale where Siemens 
Energy supports the growth of a promising start-up by provid-
ing the Hydrogen Power Units, engineering expertise, manu-
facturing excellence, and infrastructure.  GeoPura hydrogen power units are providing hydrogen-fueled clean energy.
Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 27Cybersecurity
Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity aims to protect our business operations, 
information assets, data, and our infrastructure for information technol-
ogy (IT) and operational technology (OT). In addition, its goal is to ensure 
that our products, solutions, and services meet generally accepted product 
and solution security practices. This includes the global obligation of com-
pliance with our cybersecurity rules and regulations.
Cybersecurity is the responsibility of every employee and thus a collabora-
tive task, with the degree of involvement and responsibility depending on 
individual roles and functions. Cybersecurity management at Siemens 
Energy is organized according to a management system with relevant cer -
tifications in the areas of IT security and overall cybersecurity (for example, 
ISO 27001, IEC 62443), which differ depending on site- and task-specific 
risks. It is headed by our Cybersecurity Function whose principal tasks con-
sist of defining and monitoring requirements and demanding status 
reports from the Business Areas and Functions for the company-wide 
implementation of cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Function also provides 
quarterly cybersecurity status and risk reports to the Executive Board. In 
addition, the third-party cybersecurity risk management process (TPRM) is 
dedicated to ensuring that outsourced solutions and services as well as 
suppliers are assessed for cybersecurity risks throughout the vendor life 
cycle, that control gaps are addressed, and that clauses are included in 
contracts with vendors.
The objectives of our cybersecurity activities are to provide adequately 
secured products, solutions, and services as well as dedicated cybersecu-
rity support to our customers. All of this is based on secure internal IT and OT, is intended to protect all relevant assets against cyber threats, and is 
planned to manage associated risks. This is supported by the following 
strategic objectives:
• Business enablement: Cybersecurity enables our business to protect 
adequately against cyber threats and helps us create business opportu-
nities.
• Operational excellence: Cybersecurity continuously improves resilience 
through clear and holistic accountability and ownership.
• Technology & innovation: Cybersecurity develops and adopts leading 
technologies and leverages the Siemens Energy ecosystem.
In this context, key activities include executing our cybersecurity strategy, 
delivering adequate cybersecurity services for identification, protection, 
detection, defense, and response capabilities to threats and incidents, as 
well as building up cybersecurity intelligence to mitigate risks (see chapter 
	Compliance and integrity ). This enables us to lay a strong foundation for 
our cybersecurity vision: “To be the most cybersecure energy technology 
company and bring the highest value to our customers!”
A strong management focus with close cross-business collaboration sup-
ports the integration of cybersecurity into our company and innovation strategy. The newly formed Innovation Orbit allows the cybersecurity orga-
nization to explore technology trends and ideas that are relevant. These 
trends and ideas can be rated in collaboration and can be converted into 
projects if needed. Thus, the platform is helping us get closer to a proac-
tive cybersecurity strategy definition.
In addition to the measures already implemented to increase cyber resil-
ience, Siemens Energy has also established mandatory web-based training 
and awareness measures to broaden the topic for all employees and 
strengthen awareness. The program includes a global employee Cyberse-
curity Awareness Month in October with panels, podcasts, workshop ses-
sions, news articles, and multimedia learning content.Cybersecurity training Fiscal year
2023 2022
Share of active Siemens Energy employees that completed 
web-based training in cybersecurity99.6% 99.4%
Our cybersecurity approach
Siemens
EnergyCustomers
Suppliers Business
Infrastructure FinancialsITOTProductsAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 28Partnerships and  
innovation are making  
the energy business  
more sustainable
Jaydeep Naha  
General Manager – Digital Solutions & Project Execution, 
Siemens Energy
Drones, robots, and artificial intelligence: Jaydeep Naha and his global 
team know the secret to keeping Siemens Energy on the cutting edge of 
technology for the energy transition – and they’re using it to keep the flow 
of talent, information, and innovation going.
I’m still going through my notes after a pitch meeting with a start-up in the 
UK. Because I’m a partner at Siemens Energy Ventures as well as the leader  
of Robotics in our Digitalization Field of Action (CBSI), I have a unique oppor -
tunity to work with a variety of young companies, bring their ideas and their 
new technology into the organization, and scale them up from there. 
In the past, we stayed on the cutting edge of technology by creating every -
thing on our own. Today, the development of a partner ecosystem encourages 
dynamic collaborations from which we and the energy transition benefit.04:30 p.m. 
Gurugram, India
I’m still going through my notes after a 
pitch meeting with a start-up in the UK. 
We on the Siemens Energy Ventures team 
have a unique opportunity to work with 
a variety of young companies.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 29
Forming partnerships like these allows us to speed up the process of 
creating innovative technologies that make the energy business more 
sustainable and can help mitigate climate change. For example, partnering 
with the autonomous robotics company Anybotics left us free to focus on 
the development of a digital brain, which allows a robot to move through 
any plant all by itself. If we had had to develop the hardware too, it would 
have taken us at least five years, but instead the project will be market-ready 
in less than two. Using robots equipped with a digital brain and the ability 
to work online, plants won’t need to shut down during maintenance, and 
health and safety risks for employees are minimized.
Of course, our innovation efforts aren’t only about robotics. They’re also 
about creating the asset management of the future, where robots, drones, 
and AI enhance the life-span of very expensive assets – with predictive 
maintenance and an emphasis on circular economy and reducing wastage 
and leakage through early and systematic detection.
These kind of innovations have a direct impact on sustainability. Ground robots 
like these are equipped with environmental sensors that can assess air and 
water quality, monitor emissions, detect pollutants, and help utilities track their 
environmental impact so that they can protect our ecosystems better.
When we talk about sustainability at Siemens Energy, it’s not just a word. 
It’s a value and a direction – and the work we do here moves the needle day 
by day. Robotics is just one example of how partnerships and innovation are 
making the energy business more sustainable on the ground. And that 
excites me. But despite how it sounds, I’m not a robotics geek. I just want to 
leave this world a little better than how I found it.
Watch the video:
When we talk about sustainability at 
Siemens Energy, it’s not just a word.  
It’s a value and a direction – and the work 
we do here moves the needle day by day.
The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 30• We support our customers on their way to realizing nationally and 
internationally agreed climate goals
• We give special attention to Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold 
products and work with our suppliers to help them reduce emissions
• With our Climate Neutral Program, we drive the decarbonization of 
our own processes 
The impacts of climate change, coupled with a rising global demand for 
energy, pose an enormous challenge. Meeting increasing demand with 
conventional sources of energy would result in even higher emissions of 
greenhouse gases (GHG) such as CO2. With the impact of the energy sector 
far greater than that of any other sector, our task as an energy company is 
clear: to meet the growing need for energy while taking action to shape 
the path to decarbonization. This poses risks and opportunities for our 
company, which we manage through our Enterprise Risk Management 
(see chapter 	Strategic focus ).
To drive the decarbonization of global energy systems, we are following an 
ambitious strategy. With our innovative solutions, products, and services, 
we are supporting our customers in their transition to a more sustainable world. Making this transition is an immense task, and we know we cannot 
do it alone. It will require all stakeholders from politics, business, and soci-
ety to work together more closely to achieve this vision.
On our journey to “energize society,” we are decarbonizing our business 
activities along our entire value chain. In doing so, we are contributing to 
the UN SDGs, in particular, SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” and SDG 
13 “Climate Action.”
Decarbonization is an essential part of our strategy
We are committed to decarbonization along our value chain – from our 
supply chain to our own operations to the use phase of our products. We 
have science-based 2030 targets for all scopes, and we aspire to reach net 
zero across the value chain in line with a 1.5°C pathway. 
In 2021, the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) validated the absolute 
GHG reduction targets for Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) – 
not only for our own operations (Scopes 1 and 2) but also for the use phase of our sold products (a category of Scope 3). This confirmed that the fol-
lowing targets are in line with the Paris Agreement. For Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, the SBTi confirmed our commitment to a 46% reduction by 
2030 and to increase the annual sourcing of renewable electricity from Decarbonization 
Reaching net zero emissions across the value chain is an ambitious 
target that reflects the urgent need to deal with climate change.  
We aim to contribute to the decarbonization of the energy sector with 
our range of products that help our customers reduce their emissions.
Keywords: net zero & climate neutral
Net zero refers to the balance between the amount of greenhouse gas 
produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere. To achieve 
net zero, all emissions are neutralized or removed for that year. At 
Siemens Energy, we use net zero when talking about our long-term tar -
gets across the value chain (including Scope 3 emissions).
Climate neutral means that an activity releases net zero carbon emis-
sions (and equivalents) into the atmosphere, which can be achieved by 
compensating remaining emissions beyond the own value chain. At 
Siemens Energy, we use climate neutral to refer to our goal to achieve 
climate neutrality in our own operations (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2030.
Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 3159% to 100% by 2023, both from a 2019 base year. For our Scope 3 target, 
the confirmation relates to our plans to reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions 
from the use of sold products by 28% by 2030 from a 2019 base year.
The SBTi also verified that the following emissions reduction targets in 
place at Siemens Gamesa (Scopes 1 and 2) align with the 1.5°C Paris Agree-
ment goal. The verification refers to our target to reduce Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions by 70% per MW installed by 2025 from a 2017 base year. 
Siemens Gamesa has committed that 30% of its suppliers by spend cover -
ing purchased goods and services, as well as transportation and distribu-
tion, will have science-based targets by 2025. Siemens Gamesa commits to 
increasing its annual sourcing of renewable electricity from 58% in 2017 to 
100% by 2025.
In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Gamesa made a big step toward net zero in 
Scope 3 by announcing GreenerTower, a wind turbine tower made of 
greener steel (see highlighted example on this page).In meeting the targets of the Paris Agreement, our goal is also to help meet 
the climate and energy targets of the European Union (EU). As part of its 
Green Deal, the EU has implemented a classification system – the EU Tax-
onomy – which aims to direct investments toward sustainable projects and 
activities. The taxonomy lays down criteria for the definition of sustainable 
economic activities, with the purpose of providing companies, investors, 
and policymakers with consistent and comparable criteria for assessing 
which economic activities can be considered sustainable. For fiscal year 
2022, and in accordance with a simplified approach allowed by the EU for 
first-time application, Siemens Energy reported the shares of taxonomy-el-
igible economic activities in revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx), and 
operating expenditure (OpEx) in relation to the currently developed envi-
ronmental targets “Climate change mitigation” and “Climate change adap-
tation.” In fiscal year 2023, the reporting obligation also extends to the tax-
onomy-aligned shares of revenue, CapEx, and OpEx and the recognition of 
natural gas and nuclear energy activities. For further information, please 
refer to  Siemens Energy Annual Report 2023, EU-Taxonomy .
The climate goals at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) are  
also part of our Long-Term Incentive plan and hence firmly anchored in  
top management compensation (see chapter 	Strategic focus  and the 
 Siemens Energy Annual Report 2023, Compensation Report ).
We want to facilitate the implementation of sustainability across the com-
pany and increase transparency on our performance. To this end, we are 
currently setting up an ESG data management solution. This will enable us 
to collect and process ESG data and use it for strategic forecasting. The 
goal is to reduce the manual effort required for data collection, increase 
data quality, and enable internal benchmarking and steering to achieve our 
sustainability targets. The first use case focused on Scope 3 downstream 
emissions calculations for our Gas Services Business Area. We plan to have 
the emissions from sold products automatically calculated on a quarterly 
basis and shown in a global dashboard. In addition, we are preparing the 
calculation of emissions based on our sales pipeline as maintained in Sales-
force. This is designed as an added benefit to enable us to forecast future Enabling Green Steel production
Producing steel is an energy-intensive and climate-impacting process. Pio-
neering steel producers in Europe are investing in Green Steel, using an 
electric arc furnace instead of a coal-fired furnace and hydrogen as a reduc-
ing agent. Siemens Energy is supplying substations with transformers and 
switchgear to Salcos and Feralpi Stahl to power their electric arc furnaces 
in the steel rolling mills. Feralpi Stahl has chosen our F-gas-free switchgear, 
eliminating the use of SF6. Siemens Gamesa is also looking to utilize more 
sustainable steel in its GreenerTower, which consists of approximately 80% 
steel plates. The new GreenerTower will lead to a CO2 reduction of at least 
63% in the tower steel plates compared to conventional steel, while main-
taining the same steel properties and quality.
Siemens Energy transformer factory in Nuremberg.
EU Taxonomy Fiscal year
(%) 2023 2022¹
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 73.4 57
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
activities 
72.2 
79
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible activities 
83.1 
40
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned 
activities 
37.5 
–
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
and -aligned activities 
51.0 
–
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible and -aligned activities 
40.4 
–
¹  Due to the simplified approach in fiscal year 2022, there is no prior year information on taxonomy-aligned 
shares available. A prior year comparison of the total taxonomy-eligible shares is only possible to a limited ex-
tent due to the first-time application of the complementary delegated act on natural gas und nuclear activites.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 32emissions and thus be in a better position to manage such emissions 
against our SBTi target as well as the planned annual carbon budgets that 
we are working on (for more information, see chapter 	Strategic focus ).
The greatest potential to reduce GHG emissions is in our products, solu-
tions, and services. To underscore our strategic focus of providing innova-
tive technology for our customers’ energy transition, we have defined five 
fields of action to decarbonize our portfolio (for more information, see 
chapter 	Customers and innovation ).
With a focus on sustainability, we will continue to transform our portfolio 
of products, solutions, and services, and we will focus on building the com-
pany based on our three strategic pillars (see chapter 	Strategic focus ):
• Low- or zero-emission power generation
• Transport and storage of electricity
• Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial processesAs a provider of clean and affordable energy, Siemens Gamesa’s strategy 
focuses on opportunities to develop new onshore and offshore wind tur -
bines with bigger rotors able to deliver higher annual energy levels at a 
lower cost.
Decarbonization at our customers
To reflect the importance of our products and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide, at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa), we have integrated the use of our sold products into our carbon 
footprint calculation as part of the SBTi commitment to create transpar -
ency for our stakeholders. Sold products account for over 99% of our over -
all GHG emissions.
The bulk of these emissions shall be reduced through measures such as 
portfolio adjustments, fuel shifts, and emission removal technologies (see 
chart on page 33). We expect most of our reductions in emissions from 
sold products to happen after 2030, since we believe that markets and 
technologies still need to mature and scale. Some of our customers in Ger -
many, Austria, and China are already starting to enable their plants to run 
on hydrogen (H2) rather than natural gas, starting with co-firing H2 at dif-
ferent shares, from 30% to 100%. 
We are committed to monitoring progress on climate action and reducing 
our exposure to climate-related risks. Therefore, we conducted an analysis 
of future markets based on three scenarios that include climate implica-
tions. On this basis, the climate implications of our business planning until 
2030 were evaluated for the base case scenario. We also evaluated and 
decided on emission reduction levers (for more information, see chapter 
	Strategic focus ).Enabling the co-firing of hydrogen in gas-run power 
stations
The German utility company EnBW and Siemens Energy are jointly devel-
oping the use of green hydrogen as a climate-friendly fuel in future 
power plants. One pilot project we regard as important is the EnBW dis-
trict heating power plant in Stuttgart-Münster, where natural gas is 
expected to initially replace coal in approximately three years. All systems 
are constructed from the very beginning to allow natural gas to be 
replaced with hydrogen as quickly and completely as possible. Two SGT-
800 gas turbines from Siemens Energy are at the heart of the installation. 
We estimate that green hydrogen will be available in sufficient quantities 
within ten to twelve years. Similarly, one of Austria’s largest gas turbines 
was in the process of being rebuilt on the site of the Donaustadt power 
plant in the reporting year. Before the end of fiscal year 2023, the consor -
tium of Wien Energie, RheinEnergie, Siemens Energy, and Verbund plans 
to add hydrogen for power generation for the first time as part of an 
operational trial. The trial will be the first of its kind in the world at a 
commercial combined-cycle gas turbine plant in this power class.Gas turbine maintenance at the Donaustadt power plant.
Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 3 emissions for Siemens 
Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) applies to sold products only, with the 
aim to reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products by 
28% by 2030 (from a 2019 base year):Scope 3 emissions reduction target 
Reduce Scope 3 
emissions of sold 
products  
by at least 28%  
 by 2030in line with the well below 
2°C trajectory
validated by the SBTiAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 33Our Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products have been calculated 
based on GHG Protocol standards. The main sources of the emissions are:
Products that directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use
• CO2e emissions generated through the combustion of fossil fuels (e.g., 
natural gas in a gas turbine): the amount of CO2e emissions varies 
depending on the type of fuel (e.g., natural gas, coal, hydrogen), the 
energy efficiency of the product (gas turbine, steam turbine, etc.), the 
operating hours, and the expected lifetime. 
• CO2e emissions generated by large electrical consumers (e.g., motors, 
drives, pumps) or from power losses (e.g., transformers) of the used 
products.
Products that contain or form greenhouse gases that are emitted during 
use
• To a minor extent, the transmission portfolio might be emitting CO2e 
due to SF6 gas leakages during maintenance or operational use at cus-
tomer sites.
The calculation methodology for Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold 
products comprises the emissions from our products resulting from new 
business in fiscal year 2023 over their expected use phase and the expected 
operating hours per year. When an order is received, the respective total 
lifetime emissions are determined and reported. GHG emissions that occur 
during other phases of a product’s life cycle, such as in the supply chain, 
during production, or upon end-of-life disposal, are not accounted for or 
reported in Scope 3 downstream (use of sold products). Biogenic emis-
sions are reported separately, outside of our Scope 3 downstream inven-
tory, as required by the GHG Protocol. They occur when our customers use 
biogas or biomass as a fuel (e.g., biomass power plant, biogas in a gas tur -
bine). Service business is not included in our Scope 3 emissions from the 
use of sold products. We do not disclose emissions reductions resulting 
from efficiency increases through service upgrades (of power plants, for 
example). While not part of our Scope 3 footprint calculations, we are 
Our climate roadmap
Targets
Lever100% renewable  
electricity (SBTi¹)-46% absolute  
reduction (SBTi 
validated for 2030¹)beyond 2023 2025 2030
Climate neutrality-30% per € spent Aspiration 
to reach net 
zero along the 
value chain
 Supply chain  Own operations  Portfolio• Coal exit • Energy efficiency & digitalization, e.g., waste heat recovery, combined heat and power
• Increasing renewables & electrification, e.g., transmission, storage, e-drives
• Fuel shift & GHG-free products, e.g., green fuels, blue portfolio
•  Emission removal technologies, e.g., carbon capture and storage 
(CCS, BECCS, DAC)
• Reducing energy consumption
• Using renewable electricity (100% by 2023)• Reducing SF6 emissions (60% by 2030)
• New mobility concepts (e.g., 100% CO2-neutral benefit cars by 2030)
• Conducting decarbonization due diligence assessments covering 75% of the CO2e emissions of the supply chain
• Implementing mitigation measures with suppliers-28% absolute  
reduction (SBTi¹)
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 34aware that reducing the footprint from our installed base is important to 
reducing global CO2e emissions. To learn more about our calculation meth-
odology, please refer to our annex. 
Updates of our calculation parameters
As markets are changing, we aim to make sure our calculation parameters 
reflect reality. A customer buying an H2-ready gas turbine is not evidence 
that it will actually operate on H2. Therefore, we consider co-firing H2 only 
if customers share a specific time plan and indicate to what extent they will 
use H2. We thus considered the planned share of H2 from a co-firing project 
in fiscal year 2022 in our calculations. In fiscal year 2023, we also reconsid-
ered the expected lifetime of our turbines. While gas turbines have histori-
cally been powered by fossil fuels throughout their lifetime, this will 
change in the future. Many countries, including our most relevant cus-
tomer markets, have committed to a net zero economy in 2050 and a net 
zero electricity system even earlier. We adapted our calculations accord-
ingly, assuming the turbines we sell from now on will not be operated on 
unabated fossil fuels after 2050. The expected lifetime in the base year was 
30 years; for fiscal year 2022, we considered 28 years and for fiscal year 
2023, we are calculating with 27 years. These two changes do not affect 
the baseline but do have an impact on the numbers for fiscal year 2022, 
leading to a corresponding recalculation.New turbine technology reduces CO2 emissions 
substantially
The Siemens Energy Business Area Gas Services (GS) and independent 
power producer Mass Global Energy Rom S.R.l. have signed a contract 
for the supply of the HL-class gas turbine technology for the Mintia 
combined cycle power plant in Romania. With a maximum power gen-
eration efficiency of more than 64%, the plant will be the most effi-
cient gas-fired power plant in Romania and one of the most efficient 
gas-fired plants in Europe. Running on domestic natural gas, it will 
have an electrical capacity of 1,700 megawatts and will replace a retired 
coal-fired power plant. This will make a substantial contribution to cli-
mate protection by reducing CO2 emissions by more than 50%.
Substituting fossil fuels in Sweden
The Danish energy company Ørsted is building Europe’s largest commercial production 
facility for carbon-neutral marine fuels in northeastern Sweden. At the heart of the Flag-
shipONE plant is a technology package from Siemens Energy’s Business Area Transforma-
tion of Industries (TI). It comprises four proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzers 
with a total capacity of 70 megawatts, as well as plant-wide electrification and automa-
tion systems, including innovative digitalization solutions and the entire power distribu-
tion and compressor systems. The plant, which is being built in the Swedish coastal 
town of Örnsköldsvik, will be able to produce up to 50,000 metric tons of e-methanol 
per year from renewable energy and biogenic carbon dioxide from 2025. As a substitute 
for fossil fuels, this can avoid 100,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year in shipping.
Siemens Energy’s total Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products 
during the reporting period was 1.1 billion metric tons of CO2e and the 
energy consumption is 3,150 TWh over the expected lifetime. Compared to 
fiscal year 2022, our emissions decreased by about 12% in absolute num-
bers and 33% in intensity. There are several reasons for the decrease in 
absolute emissions, including:
• Emissions decreased due to lower sold capacity (MW) in central and dis-
tributed power generation
• Lifetime for power generation was adjusted (27 years in fiscal year 2023 
vs. 28 years in fiscal year 2022)
• Operating hours for specific gas turbine frames used in central power 
generation decreased due to increasing penetration of renewable 
energy sources
While our absolute Scope 3 downstream emissions from the use of sold 
products are the primary basis for measuring and managing Scope 3 emis-
sions, they do not fully reflect the potential positive effects of our business 
activities on climate change mitigation. With our products and solutions, 
we support the decarbonization of energy systems around the globe and 
help our customers avoid emissions. The benefits of our business activities that support the decarbonization of energy systems are not reflected in 
our absolute GHG footprint. To demonstrate and estimate such benefits, 
we plan to develop a company-wide framework to calculate avoided emis-
sions outside of our Scope 3 downstream inventory.
Image depicting a model of a Liquid Wind electrofuel facility.
Scope 3 downstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 20222
Total11,098,370 1,252,319
Intensity (t CO2e/ € of order intake) 0.022 0.033
¹  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.
2  Fiscal year 2022 emissions were recalculated to reflect the reduction of the expected lifetime for gas and 
steam turbines in power generation from 30 years to 28 years and an H2 co-firing project in fiscal year 2022.
Emissions from biogenic fuels1Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022
Total1323,900 –
¹  Reporting outside of Siemens Energyʼs Scope 3 downstream inventory.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 35Decarbonization of our operating processes 
Becoming climate neutral in our own operations is an integral part of the 
sustainability journey for Siemens Energy.
With the Climate Neutral Program, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) aims to be climate neutral in its own operations by 2030 – with a 
focus on reducing emissions wherever possible and compensating for any 
remaining emissions from then on. This includes the reduction of absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 46% by 2025 from the base year 
2019. This is an even greater ambition than our initial target year, which 
was originally 2030, as validated by the SBTi. In the reporting period, we 
achieved a reduction of 59% compared to the base year 2019 and a reduc-
tion of 16% compared to 2022.
Siemens Gamesa committed to the SBTi in September 2018 and, by 2020, 
the SBTi verified that Siemens Gamesa’s emissions reduction target was 
aligned with what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
estimates necessary to meet the 1.5°C trajectory. Siemens Gamesa has 
already been climate neutral in its own operations since 2019, including 
offsetting unavoidable emissions.
The strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality are:
1. Using renewable electricity
In fiscal year 2023, we achieved our target to power 100% of Siemens 
Energy’s global electricity consumption from renewable sources. In fiscal 
year 2024, we aim to grow the share of renewable electricity produced on 
site through the installation of additional photovoltaic systems.
2. Reducing energy consumption and electrification
We have energy efficiency projects in place at various locations for build-
ings and process optimization. These include the installation of LED light-
ing with dimmers and motion sensors, the installation of smart meters to 3. Reducing SF6 emissions
SF6 emissions in our operations originate from products in our Business 
Area Grid Technologies. With the expansion of our Blue Portfolio, together 
with the stringent measures in our facilities, we have set a target of reduc-
ing SF6-related emissions by 60% by 2030 compared to a 2019 baseline. 
Due to our continuous work in all our operations to improve technical increase transparency, and building automation systems (e.g., heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning). The production scope includes, for example, 
an improved production process of transformers, achieved by installing 
heat recovery systems and vapor phase ovens that reduce drying time.
Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for Siemens Energy  
(excluding Siemens Gamesa):Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction target  
in line with 1.5°C trajectory
-46%
2019 2025 2030validated by the 
SBTi for 2030
Climate 
neutral by 
compensationstandards, increase data transparency, and raise awareness of the green-
house effect, in fiscal year 2023, we achieved a reduction of 57% compared 
to the base year and of 11% compared to fiscal year 2022.
Our SF6/F-gas-free Blue Portfolio is based on technical air insulation and 
vacuum switching technology. With its zero global warming potential, the 
portfolio enables net zero power grids.
4. New mobility concepts
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) aims for 100% CO2-neutral 
benefit cars by 2030 by implementing our car policy globally. In Germany, 
for instance, employees receive substantial financial support when choos-
ing a battery electric vehicle, whereas they pay for conventional fuel or 
diesel cars themselves. Since this bonus/malus scheme has been intro-
duced, order rates for all-electric vehicles have increased rapidly, leading 
to reduced emissions in the near future.
Siemens Gamesa has implemented various projects on this lever, such as 
starting to replace forklifts worldwide with low-carbon alternatives to 
reduce the company’s Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions, and the Siemens 
Gamesa Employee Mobility & Transport Benefits Policy, in combination 
with the policy to support the reduction of the company’s Scope 3 (indi-
rect) GHG emissions.
Siemens Energy fleet Fiscal year
2023 2022
Number of vehicles ~5,300 ~5,300
Fleet consume (1,000 GJ) 341 435Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 36Internal CO2 pricing
CO2 pricing is a further steering mechanism for achieving climate neutral-
ity, and we believe binding CO2 price signals can guide us toward the 1.5°C 
target. These price signals encourage the use of the best technologies and 
business models available. Internally, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) has implemented a policy in fiscal year 2022 to consider GHG 
emissions in our CapEx decisions and ensure that new investments sup-
port our Climate Neutral Program. To support low-carbon investment in 
our own operations, we introduced a shadow price in fiscal year 2022 of 
€100 per metric ton of CO2.
In Brazil, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) has implemented an 
internal carbon fee. Each Business Area pays a specified carbon fee into an 
investment fund, which is then used to invest in low-carbon projects. The 
carbon fee is designed to evolve based on decarbonization goals achieved 
over the years: from fiscal year 2020 to fiscal year 2022, the price was static 
at $40; for fiscal year 2023, there was a +30% correction and from fiscal 
year 2024 onward, the price will be adjusted by +10% per fiscal year until 
fiscal year 2030. We expect that this fund will be implemented in other Latin 
Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the reporting period 
was 5,186 million gigajoules (GJ), resulting in an intensity of 1.67×10-4 GJ/€ 
of revenue. Compared to fiscal year 2022, this is a decrease of 11% in abso-
lute energy consumption, which is mainly attributable to the implementa-
tion of energy efficiency projects.
Through our Climate Neutral Program and our target to have 100% of our 
global electricity consumption at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) come from renewable sources by 2023, we managed to reduce 
emissions by about 204,000 metric tons of CO2e (fiscal year 2022: 196,000) 
by using electricity from renewable sources.American countries by 2024, in consideration of local market taxation rules. 
In the first phase, the internal carbon fee is collected from the Business 
Areas (based on their previous emissions) and reverted to the fund. The 
project campaign then collects project ideas linked to energy efficiency and 
sustainable operations. The selected projects pitch their ideas to the Neutral 
CO2 Steering Committee to grant the investment for implementation.
Energy use and efficiency
We calculate the energy consumption of our offices and manufacturing 
facilities by adding primary and secondary consumption of fuels and elec-
tricity. We have implemented a global EHS reporting tool and increased 
our reporting scope to include more company locations in our direct 
reporting, which has led to better data transparency. Additionally, in fiscal 
year 2023, we have been working on increasing the reporting quality and 
frequency for operational data. Another lever to manage the complexity of 
global reporting lies in automating data collection directly from primary 
sources and transferring the data into our reporting tool.
Direct Air Capture (DAC)
Siemens Energy compressors will be used at Occidental’s first large-scale 
Direct Air Capture (DAC) plant in Texas’ Permian Basin developed by 1Point-
Five, a subsidiary of Occidental. The two compressor packages will enable 
the plant to capture up to 500,000 metric tons of CO2 per year when fully 
operational. This will be achieved by compressing the captured CO2 for 
additional processing and pressurizing the final product into a pipeline for 
injection into underground reservoirs. Siemens Energy and partners have 
also been awarded a $3.7 million grant by the U.S. Department of Energy to 
explore the feasibility of a multi-technology DAC hub. The DAC system will 
be anchored around our large-scale solid sorbent capture technology, with 
smaller deployments of next-generation capture technologies planned.
Siemens Energy compressor to be used at Occidental‘s Direct Air Capture plant.
Energy consumption Fiscal year
(1,000 GJ) 2023 2022
Primary energy 1,796 2,103
thereof natural gas & liquid petroleum gas 1,511 1,825
thereof fuel oil, coal, gasoline, diesel 217 211
thereof biogas 63 63
thereof other 4 5
Secondary energy 3,390 3,694
thereof electricity 2,893 3,117
thereof electricity from renewable sources 2,893 2,817
thereof district heating 497 577
Total 5,186 5,797
Intensity (GJ/€ of revenue) 1.67×10-42.00×10-4 Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 37Over the reporting period, we collected the following data regarding  
the level of Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to business activities. Our 
reporting tool enables us to increase the collection of actuals and reduce 
extrapolations.In fiscal year 2023, we managed to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
around 16% or 33.46 metric tons, resulting in a Scope 1 and 2 intensity of 
5.83×10-6 t CO2e/€ of revenue in 2023 compared to 7.42×10-6 t CO2e/€ of 
revenue in 2022. The main levers were an increase in green electricity, 
reduced overall energy consumption, reduced testing, and a continued 
reduction of SF6 emissions. More than 50% of our emissions occur in Ger -
many, China, and the U.S.2.
Energy efficiency
Our overall primary and secondary energy consumption was 11% below 
the previous year’s figure. Energy efficiency projects for both real estate 
and manufacturing operations have contributed to this net reduction. 
Additionally, reduced testing and the closing of locations have contributed 
to a decrease in natural gas consumption. The overall reduction has partly 
been set off due to the shift to electrification in our manufacturing pro-
cesses.Share of renewable energy Fiscal year
(%) 2023 2022
Share of renewable electricity (of total electricity) 100 90
Share of renewable energy (of total energy) 57 50
2 Without fleet emissions.Scope 1 (direct) emissions
Direct GHG emissions arise from sources in the company’s ownership or 
under its control.
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions
Indirect GHG emissions refer to the consumption of purchased electrical 
energy and district heating.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022
Scope 1 163 188
thereof natural gas & liquid gas 87 102
thereof fuel oil, gasoline, diesel 16 15
thereof SF6 32 35
thereof fleet emissions 25 32
thereof other emissions 4 3
Scope 2 18 27
thereof electricity 0 9
thereof district heat 18 18
Total 182 215
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 5.83×10-67.42×10-6 Atmospheric pollutant emissions
Other atmospheric pollutant emissions also have negative impacts on the 
environment. These include volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and 
ozone-depleting substances (ODSs). VOCs contribute to the formation of 
ozone close to the earth’s surface. Solvents, paints, and adhesives are exam-
ples of substances and materials that contain VOCs. ODSs are monitored to 
comply with the Montreal Protocol, the international convention on the pro-
tection of the ozone layer, as well as with country-specific regulations.
In calculating nitrogen oxides (NOX), we have assumed typical combustion 
conditions in relevant thermal processes.
Atmospheric pollutant emissions Fiscal year
(metric tons) 2023 2022
VOCs 257 275
ODS (in R11 equivalent) 0.007 0.009
NOX 66 74Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 38To further increase transparency regarding supplier engagement for decar -
bonization in fiscal year 2023, we encouraged more than 3,000 suppliers 
– corresponding to more than 75% of the carbon footprint in our supply 
chain – to participate in our decarbonization due diligence assessment 
(DDA) and report on their measures. These assessments will be considered 
as we track progress on our targets in the future.Decarbonization of our supply chain
Our suppliers are an important part of the value chain, and we encourage 
them to take climate protection measures. Emissions reduction is an inte-
gral part of our suppliers’ supply chain management (see chapter 	Sus-
tainable supply chain management ), and we continue to urge them to 
increase their efforts.
We run our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers Program in cooperation with an 
external service provider offering an economic model based on an input/
output analysis that identifies the CO2 footprint of all suppliers. With the 
procurement volume and the material-country combination, the model 
calculates the CO2 footprint in the supply chain based on official statistics 
and studies by the OECD, World Bank, IPCC, U.S. BEA, and the U.S. and 
European environmental agencies (spend-based method).
For Siemens Energy, we set an ambitious target of reducing our relative 
Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services, as well as 
transportation and distribution, by 30% per procurement volume unit 
(€ spent) until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018.
The calculated upstream footprint for fiscal year 2023 is 9,230 kilotons of 
CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.414, which is 0.5% higher in total emis-
sions but 8.3% lower in intensity compared to fiscal year 2022.Scope 3 upstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022¹
Total 9,230  9,182
thereof category “purchased goods and services” 8,456  8,691
thereof category “transportation and distribution” 775²  491
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.414³  0.451
¹  2022 data was adjusted to include Siemens Gamesa. Due to the partially undefined material codes of the pur -
chasing volume at Siemens Gamesa, approximately 10% of the CO2e emissions were extrapolated.
²  325 kilotons of the 775 kilotons CO2e emissions were calculated using a consumption-based method.
³  Reduction compared to the base year 2018 (baseline calculation was partially extrapolated) -18.6%.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 39Transparency and 
credibility on our path 
to net zero
Judith Osthues  
Corporate Sustainability Manager, Siemens Energy
It’s a question she faces each day. Just how much CO2 does a  
gas turbine emit over its lifetime? Responsible for climate-related 
reporting and Scope 3 downstream emissions, Judith Osthues 
explains why a thorough, transparent approach is necessary for 
 calculating the “use of sold product” emissions.
It’s late summer, the sun is shining, and I’ve just taken a break in the garden 
outside my home office. I start going through the e-mails that have piled 
up over lunch – a lot of them are about numbers, quite a few really, since 
we’re currently reviewing our Scope 3 downstream emission calculations.
Today, Siemens Energy’s GHG emissions total around 1.1 billion tons across 
all scopes. More than 99 % come from Scope 3 downstream – that is, the 
emissions from our products like gas turbines in the hands of our 
customers. By 2030, we want to reduce these emissions by 28 % (from a 
2019 base year) in order to keep in line with a pathway well below 2 °C. In 
the long-term we aspire to reach net zero across the value chain in line 
with a 1.5°C pathway. It’s not easy to know which the most important 
levers are for the long term, to know how and when those levers will 
materialize – or, let’s face it, to even know if they’ll materialize at all.01:00 p.m. 
Mülheim, Germany
It’s late summer, the sun is shining, and  
I’ve just taken a break in the garden outside 
my home office. I start going through the 
e-mails that have piled up over lunch – a 
lot of them are about numbers, quite a few 
really, since we’re currently reviewing our 
Scope 3 downstream emission calculations.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 40
Just how much CO2e does a gas turbine emit over its lifetime? The math is 
simple enough. Let’s have a look at a sample formula for a large gas 
turbine:
In the end, we can’t know exactly what happens in reality; we can only 
estimate. And even the well-established GHG protocol leaves room for 
interpretation. The best we can do is keep checking the processes and 
updating our data each year: Is it all still correct? Are the baseline 
assumptions right? Has the electricity mix changed? Are turbines being 
used differently?
Recently, colleagues from one of our Business Areas approached our team 
as they were receiving the first orders where customers wanted to add 
hydrogen to fuel their turbines. So, how should this project be accounted 
for in our GHG balance? Hydrogen can be added to our turbines, but we 
can’t say, “Okay, just because our turbines could potentially burn 70 % 
hydrogen, we’ll calculate it that way,” regardless of what they actually 
burn. Another parameter we need to look at are the operating hours of a 
gas turbine: How will the customer use it? Will it always run at baseload 
or will it be used as a peaker?
At least the principles we use to guide us are clear: transparency, credi-
bility, and a rather conservative perspective. It may not seem like much, 
but those principles are the baseline for our Scope 3 downstream-related 
targets and actions, and I am happy to be part of laying the foundation 
together with the Business Areas.
 
Watch the video:
475 MW  ⋅ 5500h ⋅
 ⋅ 27 years = 26 Mt
232g CO2e/kWh
62 %
The principles we use to guide us are clear: 
transparency, credibility. They are the 
baseline for our targets and actions.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 41Responsible operations
Summary pages 42/43
Occupational health and safety 44
Featured expert: Zero Harm  49
Conservation of resources  51
Featured expert: Zero Waste 55
Product stewardship  573
Sustainable supply chain management 61
Human rights 66
Compliance and integrity 68
Working at Siemens Energy 72
Featured expert: Talent Attraction & Diversity 81
Societal engagement  83The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 42Summary page
² Excluding construction and other waste. 
¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.Occupational health and safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors, and suppliers is our utmost priority.
2.67 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
of employees and contractors¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects, 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
73% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments  
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the 
international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards or energy audits.
3.25  million m3 
water consumption82% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries 
and adverse effects on people and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
EssentialsThe company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 43Societal engagement
Our global engagement addresses needs in 
the countries in which we operate.
€ 2.59  million 
total donationsSummary page
¹ SE (excluding Siemens Gamesa).
Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to 
ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide.95%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders, 
and a vibrant workforce.
Share of females
Training hours
12 
Total average training hours per employeein top leadership positions¹ 
in fiscal year 2023 
28%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 23.5  billion 
procurement volume97%  
increase in  
supplier self- 
assessments16%  
increase in external 
sustainability  
audits
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights 
along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projects.Our target in top leadership positions 
by 2025
25%The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 44Occupational health and safety
• Prevention and communication are key to implementing  
functioning health and safety systems
• Umbrella certificate for the Integrated Management Systems  
substitutes local certificates
• Strong Zero Harm culture promoted through awareness training 
and monitoring
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, part-
ners, contractors, and suppliers is one of our key objectives. Having a sound 
occupational health and safety approach is vital to achieve the two SDGs to 
which we are committed: SDG 3 “Good Health and Well-Being” and SDG 8 
“Decent Work and Economic Growth.”
Our environment, health, and safety (EHS) standards are anchored in all 
our business practices and are aligned with our EHS Principles and Core 
Responsibilities as well as our Business Conduct Guidelines. At Siemens 
Energy, we use these as a foundation for the development of our EHS man-
agement systems and processes.
In the area of EHS, communication is key. There is a formal monthly com-
mittee meeting in the form of the EHS Collaboration Board Call, with mem-
bers of the Corporate EHS team, the EHS Leads of the Business Areas, EHS 
Hub Leads, and the lead country EHS Leads convening to discuss EHS topics. In addition, we organize a quarterly safety call, a health call, and an envi-
ronmental call with EHS Leads in the countries and Business Areas attend-
ing. We distribute a monthly newsletter and use an internal Viva Engage 
(formerly Yammer) community for ongoing communications. The Business 
Area EHS Leads cascade all information channels accordingly. Participation 
is covered by open communication driving the “develop locally and share 
globally” philosophy.
In the reporting year, we also continued our regular safety reviews with 
members of the Executive Board. These were further enhanced by a pro-
cess improvement to provide lessons learned (LLs) for all recordable inci-
dents and high-potential near misses. The LLs are stored in a central reposi-
tory, which is accessible to all employees.
To support the fundamental requirements for good occupational health 
and safety, our EHS Policy aligns with our company principles and behav -
iors, demonstrating
• strong leadership, ownership, and commitment,
• promotion of good health and safety conduct,
• commitment to continuous improvement,
• hazard identification, risk assessment and prevention, and
• compliance with principles, standards, and behaviors.Formal management systems
Alongside the EHS Policy, the ISO 45001 standard provides guidance so 
that international and local regulations, laws, standards, and practices are 
observed and complied with wherever we operate. This standard provides 
a basis for effective management, identification of potential risks, and 
internal audit and review.
Siemens Energy aims to have a certifiable management system covering all 
employees worldwide. Each operational business within Siemens Energy 
operates under a relevant and maintained integrated management system 
covering quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), and health and 
safety (ISO 45001).
During fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) con-
tinued to transition from having six umbrella certificates covering ISO 
9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001 to having one overarching multi-site cer -
tificate that covers all three standards. In the next step, countries and 
stand-alone certificates will be integrated into the multi-site certificate.
The Business Areas perform internal audits within their organization to 
prepare and maintain certifications. Siemens Gamesa has all locations cov -
ered by one certifiable management system.
Contractors and temporary workers are expected to work to the same stan-
dards as Siemens Energy employees. Contractor incidents are shared with 
the Business Areas and Global Functions for discussion, lessons learned, 
and the identification of opportunities for improvement. We also hold 
direct meetings with our contractors and suppliers to discuss high-impact 
and high-potential incidents and improvement opportunities.Safe workplaces and healthy employees are our utmost priority. 
We systematically identify risks, work toward avoiding incidents, 
and promote employee well-being.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 45All relevant data is shared with the Executive Board. Siemens Energy 
(excluding Siemens Gamesa) continues with its proven practice of “Eye on 
Safety Reviews,” which are held regularly with a member of the Siemens 
Energy Executive Board and are accessible to all employees on the Siemens 
Energy EQS SharePoint. EQS refers to our overarching system for Environ-
ment, Health, Safety, Quality, and Security.
In fiscal year 2023, further improvements in the quality of our contractor 
management approach included a review and standardization of our con-
tractor pre-qualification questionnaire and approvals process. At Siemens 
Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), we also reviewed our General EHS 
Requirements for Contractors and have published a contractor-specific 
SharePoint providing access to contractor information, linked directly to 
the Zero Harm Framework.Health and safety culture provides the foundation 
Siemens Energy is committed to not only protecting the environment but 
also managing the health, safety, and well-being of our employees, part-
ners, and other stakeholders who may be affected by our business and 
operational activities. That is why our priority is a strong Zero Harm Frame-
work, which is driven by our principles, essentials, behaviors, and building 
blocks (see graphic on Zero Harm).
The Zero Harm Framework at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) 
intends to set minimum expectations, placing responsibility on each local 
manager to develop and implement the principles, discuss elements that 
will be included in their program with their teams, and then reinforce them 
in the course of the daily work.Principles
Foundation for strong and well- 
connected governance and assurance 
at all levels in our organization
Behaviors
To be demonstrated by everyone  
in our company, no matter the type  
of work
Essentials
Must be complied with by everyone 
performing this type of high-risk 
activityZero Harm at Siemens Energy
Risk assessmentZero harm 
is achievable
Health
Confined space Working at height Vehicle safetyMachine guarding 
and interlockingSTOP!We take care
of each other
DrivingWe do not
compromise
Environment
Cranes and liftingHazardous energy 
controlElectrical safetyExplosive gases 
and vaporsIncident
managementWe develop locally
and share globally
New mentoring program in EQS
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) has launched a global 
mentoring program, which aims to professionally develop women in 
the EQS community over a two-to-three-year period by growing 
self-confidence, encouraging them to seek new challenges, and aiming 
to leverage their careers into leadership positions. The program con-
nects women from all over the world, allowing them to participate in 
global activities with mentors from other countries and regions, prac-
tice other languages, and develop soft skills such as adaptability and 
resilience. As of fiscal year 2023, the program has 16 mentees, all of 
whom have been assigned a global Activity Mentor and a task designed 
to increase skills and knowledge with regard to EQS. Every six to eight 
months, a new group of mentees is inducted into the program.Participants of the global mentoring program in EQS.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 46With our global EHS reporting tool, we can continuously monitor any con-
cerns raised by employees, with each case treated locally according to our 
reporting process. Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) is cur -
rently implementing a new global software solution covering environmen-
tal, health, safety, security, and product safety incidents. The software is 
flexible, able to grow with our companyʼs requirements, and fully opera-
tional for event management in fiscal year 2023.
Siemens Gamesa is implementing the same software for health, safety, 
and environment (HSE) topics. This Business Area also continues to instill  
a strong Zero Harm culture across the global business. In fiscal year 2023, 
it released the Zero Harm Framework Standard to align with that of the 
other Business Areas of Siemens Energy and performed a business reorga-
nization under its Mistral program. This led to the majority of EHS resources 
in the business units to better support the needs of the business and drive 
a culture of performance accountability. 
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) has implemented a training 
platform that provides employees with the opportunity to develop both 
individual and team-based EHS skills and knowledge to meet regulatory 
requirements associated with their job roles and the minimum standards 
established by the Zero Harm Framework. EHS training has been aligned to 
provide a core set of courses directly corresponding with the EHS elements 
of the Zero Harm Framework.
Siemens Gamesa has a standardized training platform with the required 
EHS training courses made available to employees and contractors.Health and safety performance under review
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) completed corporate assur -
ance occupational safety (OS) audits related to a locationʼs risk factors. The 
audits were conducted on site and across organizational levels to increase 
the effectiveness of our safety risk management at manufacturing, ser -
vice, and project sites. Siemens Gamesa also completed OS audits (to ISO 
45001 standard) during fiscal year 2023. OS audits and their results will 
continue to be quantified, providing details for the effective implementa-
tion of optimization measures, lessons learned, and continuous improve-
ment recommendations.
Preventing incidents
Health and safety performance at Siemens Energy is managed via internal 
processes that define the requirements for the classification, recording, 
and investigation of incidents.
Processes at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) include 
monthly reviews with each Business Area on how to meet its individual 
action plan as well as the implementation of behaviors defined in the Zero Harm Framework. In fiscal year 2023, cranes and lifting remained one of 
our highest risks. Recognizing the need to protect our people working in 
this high-risk area, corporate EQS mandated a safety standdown, which is 
a call to action to review, discuss, and implement changes where applica-
ble. Tracked via our incident reporting tool, the standdown involved 566 
managers, team leads, and supervisors responsible for cranes and lifting 
activities. Guidance was provided for managers unable to personally lead 
the standdown, ensuring that the message cascaded effectively. The ini-
tiative also reached an additional 1,500 managers, team leads, and super -
visors.
Moving forward, cranes and lifting safety will remain a top priority. We aim 
to achieve a reduction in incidents and are committed to maintaining the 
focus on this crucial aspect of workplace safety. By leveraging the positive 
results and experiences from the standdown, we are on track to create a 
safer environment for our people as we strive for continuous improvement 
in safety standards.
In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Gamesa devised a Proactive KPI Index, which is 
designed to monitor and promote the expected safety-related behaviors Zero Harm Champions League
The Zero Harm Champions League was announced on Zero Harm Day and is 
designed to recognize teams that demonstrate outstanding performance in one or 
more of the Zero Harm Behaviors or Essentials. A total of 300 teams applied, and 
this fiscal year, 14 teams were selected to join the champions league based on their 
deep commitment to health, safety, and environmental practices in their daily 
actions. The winners were personally congratulated by Siemens Energy’s board 
members and shared their best practices and lessons learned with other teams 
across the organization.
Celebration of our colleagues’ health and safety commitment.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 47across the business. This KPI has four main elements, which are averaged 
into an indexed value, these being:
• Percentage of closed actions versus total planned actions
• Percentage of inspections performed versus those defined in the  
inspection plan
• Level of compliance regarding the Incident Management Standard
• General proactive reporting rate (the proactive reporting rate measures 
the number of proactive events per one million working hours, with the 
following event types included: near miss, unsafe act, unsafe condition, 
positive observations, and observations)
This indexed KPI is made transparent via a dashboard and regularly dis-
cussed at management meetings to reinforce the expected actions and 
behaviors. The result for this KPI for fiscal year 2023 will be used as a 
benchmark for further improvement in subsequent years.
Our key focus is on the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) and serious inci-
dents, details of which we share with the Executive Board on a monthly 
basis. We also report the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) to the 
Board every month.
At the end of the fiscal year, the overall TRIR of employees without contrac-
tors stood at 2.61 and the LTIFR of employees without contractors at 1.34.
The initiatives and action plans to bring down the LTIFR and TRIR have not yet 
materialized, thus affecting the overall performance. A combination of sev -
eral aspects including organizational changes and workforce turnover com-
bined with a high workload resulted in a delay of initiatives and action plans.
Our key objective is to prevent incidents, including high-consequence inci-
dents, during the performance of work activities. The Zero Harm Framework 
supports our efforts to reduce the severity of injuries. In fiscal year 2023, we 
had 8 high-consequence work-related injuries (fiscal year 2022: 10).
Regrettably, we also had two work-related fatal accidents (fiscal year 2022: 
three). One fatal accident is still under investigation, the other fatal acci-dent was related to contractor contact with a crane. Each serious event or 
fatal accident causes grief for families, friends, and colleagues. As a com-
pany, we thoroughly investigate and assess the circumstances and conse-
quently derive measures to prevent such accidents from happening again.
We are vigilant that employees are not exposed to occupational illnesses or 
work-related diseases while performing work activities. The Zero Harm 
building block “Safe from Workplace Exposure” at Siemens Energy (exclud-
ing Siemens Gamesa) is therefore an essential part of our Zero Harm 
Framework. This building block provides a set of rules to eliminate expo-sure hazards in the work environment. Siemens Gamesa uses the risk 
assessment to identify controls to avoid exposure to hazards that would 
lead to an occupational illness.Occupational illnesses1Fiscal year
2023 2022
Occupational illness frequency rate2 of employees³ 0.25 0.28
1  Illnesses declared as an occupational illness and recognized by an external authority/insurance company  
or by a physician.
2 Number of occupational illnesses x 1,000,000/work hours performed.
3  Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors. Siemens Gamesa has aligned with Siemens Energy definitions of 
worker type in fiscal year 2023: Temporary workers, previously included with contractors, were included with 
the Siemens Energy employees for fiscal year 2023.Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)1Fiscal year
2023 2022
TRIR of employees² 2.61 2.17
TRIR of contractors³ 3.03 2.65
TRIR of employees & contractors 2.67 2.27
¹  Total Recordable Injury Rate: number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted work, or medical treatment.
²  Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors. Siemens Gamesa has aligned with Siemens Energy definitions of 
worker type in fiscal year 2023: Temporary workers, previously included with contractors, were included with 
the Siemens Energy employees for fiscal year 2023.
³  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of the 
company. Siemens Gamesa captures all contractors; Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) captures 
contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and classified as complex during the bid phase.Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)1Fiscal year
2023 2022
LTIFR of employees² 1.34 1.15
LTIFR of contractors³ 1.70 1.52
LTIFR of employees & contractors 1.40 1.22
¹  Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: number of lost time injuries (LTI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed. LTIs are 
accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
²  Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors. Siemens Gamesa has aligned with Siemens Energy definitions of 
worker type in fiscal year 2023: Temporary workers, previously included with contractors, were included with 
the Siemens Energy employees for fiscal year 2023.
³  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of the 
company. Siemens Gamesa captures all contractors; Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) captures 
contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and classified as complex during the bid phase.
High-consequence injury rate1Fiscal year
2023 2022
High-consequence injury rate of employees & contractors20.033 0.040
1  Work-related serious personal life-threatening or life-altering injuries as well as injuries with more than 180 days 
of lost/restricted work. Excluding fatalities.
2  Number of high-consequence work-related injuries x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Incl. temporary workers and contractors.Fatalities1Fiscal year
2023 2022
Employees 0 1
Contractors 2 2
Total 2 3
1  Excluding cases beyond Siemens Energy’s influence (e.g., force majeure, third-party violence) or outside of 
Siemens Energyʼs scope of responsibility.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 48Risk assessment is a key Zero Harm behavior. Each employee is required to 
identify hazards and carry out risk assessments for all work activities and 
workplaces to identify and implement controls. Employees are not to start 
a work activity without an approved risk assessment and an understanding 
of the controls.
Promoting health
Within the overall management approach for occupational health and 
safety, prevention is our key strategy for the sustainable promotion of 
employee health. Each country organization, in cooperation with the rele-
vant Business Areas at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), is 
required to identify and implement health management programs that 
focus on healthy working and healthy employees – reflecting local needs 
and conditions.
As part of the Zero Harm Framework at Siemens Energy (excluding 
Siemens Gamesa), managers are required to establish programs and activ -
ities covering the following health-related building blocks:
• Fit for Work
• Health on Project Sites
• Healthy for Life
• Pandemic Management Plan
• Resilient for Work
• Safe from Workplace Exposure
• Traveler Health
These include training courses on topics such as exercise, nutrition, stress, 
physical well-being, psychological health, and work-life balance.
We also carried out our annual global health management survey in fiscal 
year 2023, which provides transparency on the health management status 
in each country and enables us to help each country identify areas for 
improvement. This includes establishing whether defined health-related building blocks have been implemented by the countries. Further to this, 
Siemens Energy continues to drive the global initiative on mental health 
with the motto “Mental health is a Team Purple priority – Let’s make it bet-
ter!” The initiative aims to increase awareness of mental health globally 
and to launch campaigns based on the set strategy. In connection with this 
strategy, a mental health app has been acquired for the staff, and a spe-
cific SharePoint and Viva Engage community have been started for addi-
tional support.
Siemens Gamesa runs a centralized health management program com-
bined with initiatives deployed at regional levels.
The Business Area provides corporate initiatives covering the same health 
priorities and topics as the rest of Siemens Energy through the Health at 
Heart Pathway. In addition, Siemens Gamesa offers team challenges and 
virtual sports clubs. Also, its global health surveys apply the same criteria 
and are combined with a specific survey focused on stress evolution. 
Siemens Gamesa carries out a global psychosocial risk assessment every 
three years – the last one in fiscal year 2023. On the topic of mental health, 
it has built a strategy based on the advice of its Mental Health Scientific 
Advisory Board, which was established in fiscal year 2020, and is now 
reporting specific metrics in this field, too.
When considering global approaches, EQS representatives and health 
management (including mental health) specialists from the countries in 
which Siemens Energy operates form a team of 24 key members to discuss 
relevant tasks. EQS organizes the meetings, questionnaires, tools, and 
evaluation of data. The teams can be extended for special tasks as 
required.
Travel risk management
Siemens Energy takes its duty of care for traveling employees very seri-
ously. We used to have a proprietary travel risk assessment and approval 
tool to ensure travel is only permitted and approved when appropriate pro-
tections are in place. In fiscal year 2023, we replaced this tool with the 
global travel management provider International SOS.Employees are provided with healthcare coverage for international assign-
ments through major providers. While this is currently managed on a coun-
try-by-country basis, all aspects of travel risk assessment and healthcare 
coordination, including an app for direct assistance, will be managed 
through our International SOS contract in the future.
Siemens Energy has a 24/7 hotline available to all employees and offers 
travel security awareness training through our online learning tool.
Psychosocial risk assessment
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work defines psychosocial 
risks in the workplace as “aspects in the design, organization and direction 
of work and its social environment which may cause psychological, social 
or physical health damage in workers.” In this type of assessment, the tar -
get is to detect psychosocial hazards affecting employees and measure the 
risk related to them. In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Gamesa launched a psy -
chosocial risk assessment, achieving a 63% participation rate with 18,000 
answers collected. This information has allowed the company to put in 
place more than 5,000 different actions to mitigate this type of risk.Ensuring our employees are not affected by psychosocial hazards is a key part of our zero 
harm program.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 49Environmental  
protection goes  
hand in hand with  
occupational safety
Benjamin Dahn  
Head of EHS – Grid Technology Products, Siemens Energy
While his Business Area is taking care for the energy transition with the 
grand-scale production of eco-friendly power grid technology, he’s taking 
care of the people producing it: Ben and his team pursue the vision of a 
“zero harm” safety culture where we’re all looking out for each other.
This afternoon, I have a video conference with my colleague in Brazil, coordi-
nating the next steps in our “Zero Harm Culture.” We talk at least twice a week 
about work-related incidents, the circumstances that led to them, and their 
causes. For us, every case counts, and we use these findings to continuously 
improve our EHS programs.
Most incidents have a triggering human factor: the fitter at the workbench or 
the service technician or the people in sales who drive hundreds of kilometers a 
week. Our goal is to make sure they all get home safe and sound.01:00 p.m. 
Berlin, Germany
This afternoon, I have a video conference 
with my colleague in Brazil, coordi-
nating the next steps in our “Zero Harm 
Culture.” We talk at least twice a week 
about workplace accidents and the events 
that led up to them. The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 50
We’re together on a journey to zero harm – and a driving principle behind that 
culture is that we take care of each other. So, it’s important that everyone at 
Siemens Energy takes part in the conversation and asks themselves questions 
like, “What does occupational safety mean for me in my daily workspace?” or 
“How would I go about stopping an unsafe activity?”
In my Business Area we have 43 plants around the world (I work with people 
from China to Mexico), and if we want to identify global company trends, we 
have to carefully report and measure all the data. Which is one reason why we 
have a company-wide standard to report every accident using a tool that lets 
you easily categorize an incident. This helps us recognize and reward positive 
behavior or proactively identify unsafe situations before an accident even 
happens.
Then there are different measuring systems. Traditionally, for years, it was the 
LTIFR – Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. It is heavily focused on lost work time, 
less so on the actual well-being of the workers involved. But if you think about it, 
workers can get injured at different severity scales on the exact same machine – a 
millimeter more can make the difference between a minor scratch or stitches, 
even if the reason for the cut is the same. That’s why it’s more transparent to look 
at the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), which considers all recordable 
incidents and working hours related to a common exposure of 1,000,000 h.
In my view, if you’re serious about protecting people from work hazards, you 
also need to be serious about protecting the environment. In fact, when I was 
a kid, my father told me about the rainforests being depleted by mankind, and 
I remember saying, “Dad, I want to be an environmentalist when I grow up.” 
We’re already seeing the effects of climate change – smog, fires, floods, which 
pose a threat to humankind. Environmental protection thus also goes hand in 
hand with occupational safety for me. 
 
Watch the video:
In my view, if you’re serious about 
protecting people from work hazards, you 
also need to be serious about protecting the 
environment.
The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 51Conservation of resources
the company and supports the Executive Board in fulfilling its EHS duties. 
The Business Area functions EQS or EHS are responsible for supporting the 
appointed Business Area Executive Vice Presidents. At Siemens Energy, the 
EHS Policy – as part of the Integrated Management System – is further 
supported by the 	Zero Harm Framework , which aims to embed Principles, 
Behaviors, and Essentials at all levels of the organization (see chapter 
	Occupational health and safety ). In this way, the Business Areas address 
the relevant elements down to local environmental, health, and safety 
risks across the organization.
As part of our EHS management system in larger projects, we use environ-
mental aspect assessments to evaluate potential impacts related to our 
business activities. The assessments include impact severity and probabil-
ity, providing information for management action and opportunities for 
improvement. We can then also assess compliance with globally applicable 
basic requirements such as the IFC World Bank Guidelines.• Environmental management is embedded in our processes as part 
of the Zero Harm Framework
• Climate change risks have been assessed for major locations and 
mitigation measures are being implemented
• Increased internal transparency with more automated reporting  
on metrics
The number of environmental challenges around the world is growing apace: 
climate change, endangered biodiversity, water shortages, increased waste 
generation, and other factors lead to more complex environmental require-
ments and demand intensified approaches toward a circular economy.
At Siemens Energy, we aim to minimize our impact on the environment by, 
for example, managing freshwater withdrawal and emissions, protecting 
biodiversity, and reducing waste. With the help of our Integrated Manage-
ment System (IMS), we aim to comply with applicable laws, regulations, 
and stakeholder expectations. Through our environmental protection mea-
sures and management systems, we contribute to SDG 6 “Clean Water and 
Sanitation,” SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy,” SDG 12 “Responsible Con-
sumption and Production,” and SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
Our IMS is based on the principles of the international standards ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001, ISO 45001, and ISO 50001 or energy audits as per national legis-
lation. These are either certified or aimed at implementing a certifiable management system (see chapter 	Occupational health and safety ). An 
objective of these systems is, for example, to continuously improve envi-
ronmental performance, lower environmental impacts, and increase 
energy efficiency (for more information on energy consumption and emis-
sions, see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Siemens Energy continues to build on the Zero Harm culture that recog-
nizes and reflects our societal responsibilities for environmental protection 
and the health and safety of our employees, business partners, and other 
stakeholders who may be affected by our business activities. The appointed 
Vice President EQS implements EHS governance requirements throughout Across our operations and projects, we want to use natural resources in a 
responsible manner and avoid any negative impacts on the environment.
Zero waste to landfill in Brazil 
The waste management program in Brazil aims to increase recyclability, reduce waste to 
landfill, and develop a zero-waste culture. In fiscal year 2023, the waste management 
operation was moved to a central location named NECTAR (circular economy and 
advanced resource transformation center – in Portuguese). This new location provides a 
place employees can visit to learn about circular economy and waste management and 
receive support with correct waste disposal in the factories. It is also a single location for 
waste disposal, enabling the recycling of difficult-to-recycle materials such as Styrofoam.
Waste separation at new NECTAR location.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 52Additionally, we use our Idea Management 3i to foster ideas, initiatives, 
and innovations of Siemens Energy employees worldwide. Ideas with EHS 
content are an especially important outcome of this program, since they 
contribute to improving EHS aspects and can result in energy savings and 
cost reductions.
Meeting environmental management standards
The Zero Harm Framework and the Sustainability Vision 2040 of Siemens 
Gamesa provide the foundation upon which we aim to meet the growing 
number of environmental protection requirements imposed by both regu-
lators and our customers, and strengthen our position as a sustainable 
company. In our activities, we are guided by the logic embedded in the ISO 
14001 environmental management standard of identifying environmental 
aspects of our business operations and minimizing or mitigating negative 
impacts. Our main objectives focus on improving environmental perfor -
mance in the areas of energy, air, water, and waste, including:
• Increasing energy efficiency by using energy management systems at 
our sites
• Achieving 100% green electricity by 2023
• Controlling air-pollutant emissions by replacing ozone-depleting sub-
stances and reducing solvents
• Assessing climate change risks, including water risks, and implementing 
local mitigation and prevention strategies
• Reducing waste materials
• Promoting zero waste to landfill by consistently preventing landfill waste
Climate change risk assessment
As climate change progresses, we are aware of the risks that could impact 
our business. Climate-related risks such as flooding, extreme temperatures, 
or hurricanes may cause an evacuation of personnel, disruptions of supply 
chains, or damage to facilities. We have conducted physical climate change 
risk assessments for 95 major manufacturing locations according to size and energy consumption in order to evaluate changes in physical climate 
parameters, plan resources, and manage climate risks. This baseline assess-
ment is now being used to identify direct financial impacts and to pinpoint 
and quantify mitigation measures as part of the local management sys-
tems. We also perform local risk assessments to evaluate EHS impacts and 
define emergency response measures at selected locations. In addition, we 
are working on developing an instruction to analyze levers during product 
design that can reduce the exposure to climate change risks.
Resources management
As a step toward resource conservation and circular economy, we pay spe-
cial attention to the topics of waste and water management.
Waste
The environmental relevance of waste depends upon the type of waste in 
question and the methods used to dispose of it. Hazardous and non-haz-
ardous waste fractions are each further divided into recyclable waste and 
waste for disposal. Waste from construction or demolition work is reported 
separately, since this type of waste material arises independently from pro-
duction.
Our waste reporting logic aims to bring uniformity to the process of cate-
gorizing waste across all global reporting locations, and has been imple-
mented within the environmental reporting tool for all of Siemens Energy 
(see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Our waste intensity in fiscal year 2023 was 4.94×10-⁶ metric tons per € of 
revenue. The increase of 3% in intensity and 11% for total waste compared 
to the previous year is mainly due to construction activities, which also 
lead to an increase in hazardous waste.
We are continuously working toward “zero waste to landfill” by increasing 
our share of total recycling.Waste Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons) 2023 2022
Non-hazardous waste 122 120
Hazardous waste 24 18
Construction waste 6 1
Other waste categories 2 1
Total 154 139
Waste intensity (metric tons/€ of revenue) 4.94×10-64.79×10-6
thereof  
reused waste  
2Waste recycling and disposal¹
(1,000 metric tons)
Total recycled waste120  (110)
Waste for disposal31  (28)
thereof  
recycled waste  
98thereof  
recovered waste  
20151 (138)
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets 
1 Excluding construction and other waste.Fiscal year 2023Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 53Water
Water remains an important topic for Siemens Energy. We aim to carefully 
manage the use of fresh water in our operations as well as the impact of 
our projects on water resources in the surrounding areas. At Siemens 
Energy, water is mainly used for cooling and sanitary purposes.Water consumption Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2023 2022
Fresh water use 2.73 2.80
Ground and surface water for cooling (returned  
to receiving water body, chemically unchanged,  
but warmed)0.50 0.62
Total 3.25 3.45
Water intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 1.04×10-⁴ 1.19×10-4Wastewater Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2023 2022
Wastewater from employee facilities 1.45 1.44
Wastewater from manufacturing processes 0.20 0.24
Other (incl. losses) 0.24 0.51
Conditioned cooling water discharged as wastewater 0.65 0.60
Total wastewater without chemically unchanged 
cooling water2.60 2.79
Cooling water (returned to receiving water body,  
chemically unchanged, but warmed)0.53 0.67
Total 3.27 3.46
Wastewater intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 1.05×10-⁴ 1.19×10-4Recycling Fiscal year
(%) 2023 2022
Share of total recycling¹ 82 81
thereof recycled 67 64
thereof reused 1 3
Share of recycled hazardous waste 34 54
¹ Excluding construction and other waste.
Waste recycling and disposal¹ Fiscal year
(in 1,000  metric tons) 2023 2022
Waste for disposal 31 28
thereof reuse waste 2 4
thereof recovery 20 19
Total recycled waste 120 110
thereof recycled waste 98 88
Total 151 138
¹ Excluding construction and other waste.Water risks are analyzed as part of the climate change risk assessment, 
making it easier to identify sites that are in high water risk areas. This sup-
ports locations in planning and implementing effective water manage-
ment strategies, considering factors such as water stress, water pollution, 
and flooding. Our locations aim to reduce water usage, consumption, and 
related risks through their integrated management systems or by means of 
individual mitigation plans.
At Siemens Energy, the volume of water abstracted over the reporting 
period equates to 3.25 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2022: 3.45 million 
cubic meters). Water intensity in fiscal year 2023 was 1.04×10-⁴ cubic 
meters per € of revenue. This is a decrease of 6% in absolute water con-
sumption and 12% in water intensity compared to fiscal year 2022. One 
factor that influenced the decrease is the greater transparency that we 
have achieved by implementing our global EHS reporting tool.
Wastewater from our facilities and manufacturing processes amounts to 
3.27 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2022: 3.46 million cubic meters). 
Wastewater intensity in fiscal year 2023 was 1.05×10-⁴ cubic meters per € 
of revenue. This is a decrease of 5% in absolute wastewater and 12% in 
wastewater intensity compared to fiscal year 2022.Water consumption
3.2
2.7
0.5Total
Fresh water use(million cubic meters)
Ground and surface 
water for coolingFiscal year 2023Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 54Biodiversity
Maintaining biodiversity is crucial if we are to sustain healthy ecosystems. 
Siemens Energy uses natural resources (such as water and fuels) at its 
offices, production facilities, and project sites. This interaction with the 
environment could introduce negative impacts on local ecosystems, habi-
tats, and species.
Therefore, the conservation of biodiversity is integrated into our environ-
mental management systems as well as into instructions for both manu-
facturing locations and project sites, with the aim of reducing the negative 
impacts of our operations as much as possible.
There is also a product-related aspect to be looked at. We are analyzing and 
translating the requirements identified in our customersʼ environmental 
impact assessment studies as well as in regulations and standards, and incor -
porating them into our project-specific EHS plans and site instructions in 
order to manage and subsequently reduce negative impacts to a minimum.
As part of our corporate citizenship activities, our employees have identi-
fied many local biodiversity initiatives worth supporting. Siemens Energy 
employees can lend their support to them in order to contribute to protect-
ing biodiversity and creating a safe environment for plants and animals. 
Examples include tree plantings, insect-friendly wildflower meadows, 
hives for wild bees, bird-nesting areas, roof greening measures, and the 
creation of nature pools.
Siemens Gamesa launched its own biodiversity commitment in 2022, 
which sets out its ambitions to manage biodiversity across operations in all 
countries and regions where this Business Area operates (including the 
supply chain). Siemens Gamesa fosters innovation and research on nega-
tive impacts of wind turbines, promotes effective and transparent report-
ing and communication, and develops training and awareness activities 
around the topic.Environment-related incidents
Environmental incidents resulting from our business activities, including 
product-related incidents, can cause damage to our natural environment 
and surroundings.
During fiscal year 2023, we had one significant environmental incident 
related to Siemens Energy (fiscal year 2022: 2).
This incident is related to the release of SF6 from a product after an opera-
tional handling incident.
As a company, we will investigate, assess, and derive measures that will 
prevent such incidents from happening again.
Green factory in Nuremberg
The Nuremberg power transformer factory has installed a highly 
innovative solar system on its exterior façade. The flexible photo-
voltaic modules are made from 2 mm thin hydrocarbon-based 
materials that are ultra-lightweight. The flexible film has the 
worldʼs lowest carbon footprint and can be thermally recycled at 
the end of its life cycle. The use of the photovoltaic film opens up 
new possibilities for utilizing additional areas on the factoryʼs 
premises to generate solar power. The site has also established a 
12-acre green area for native plants, insects, and small animals on 
a former sports compound. Smaller and previously unused open 
spaces have also been converted into flowering meadows, creat-
ing a habitat for insects and six bee colonies. The transformer 
factory beesʼ blossom honey is a popular gift for our customers.Installation of flexible photovoltaic film modules on Nuremberg power trans-
former factory.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 55We’re closing the  
loop on waste
Tatiana Novis Lopes Gil  
Regional Environmental Manager, Siemens Energy
“Wait a minute, can you recycle that?” In Brazil, Tatiana Novis Lopes 
Gil is part of an innovative team that makes sustainability a part of 
everyday work life. They’ve eliminated the need to send waste to 
landfills, and now use the material as a resource in other processes, 
making a step toward a circular economy.  
It’s early in the morning, and I’m on my way to the office, getting ready 
for the first meeting of the day. There is no such thing as a “regular day at 
the office” for me – and I love it that way. Today, we’re working on 
building a robust, digitalized data system that lets us look up in real time 
what comes in and what goes out in our waste management. And we 
want to keep our data as open as possible, so that anyone can do the math 
for themselves and understand what we’re doing on a day-to-day basis.  
Our work here has two main pillars: CO2 neutralization and a focus on 
circular economy approaches like our “zero waste to landfill” project. 
Sending waste to a landfill, even if that’s your last resort, is never ideal, 
because you’re basically creating a pile of trash and covering it with earth.  08:00 a.m. 
Jundiaí, Brazil
It’s early in the morning, and I’m on 
my way to the office, getting ready for the 
first meeting of the day. There is no such 
thing as a “regular day at the office” for 
me – and I love it that way. The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 56
Since 2021, the project has already managed to reduce the amount of 
waste we send to those destinations from 295 metric tons to nearly zero 
by applying a few different strategies. For starters, our on-site cafeterias 
are now equipped with a biodigester to decompose organic waste and 
turn it into a domestic liquid waste, just like the one from our sinks and 
toilets, that can be safely delivered to the public sewage treatment 
system.  
We’re also focusing strongly on recycling and co-processing initiatives. 
For example, many of our suppliers use wooden pallets and crates, and 
we end up with a large amount of them left over. So, we’re finding ways 
of reusing all this wood for our own packaging or returning it back to the 
suppliers – and even working with them on how to develop returnable 
containers.  
From our own side, it’s amazing how much better we get at separating 
materials for recycling when we work closely with employees and invest 
in their training. That’s basically what we do here with easy-to-under -
stand, gamified training sessions. And for some kinds of waste that are 
not suitable for recycling, we’ve been applying the “waste to energy” 
approach, in which the residue can be used as fuel by concrete plants in 
Brazil.  
For all these initiatives to succeed and have a positive environmental 
impact, accountability and transparency are key. And we can all do our bit 
in a way that adds up globally. It’s the simple stuff that people usually 
don’t think about – but if it can be done, why not do it?
Watch the video:
From our own side, it’s amazing how 
much better we get at separating materials 
for recycling when we work closely with 
employees and invest in their training.
The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 57Product stewardship
als over the entire life cycle. This process aims at ensuring that each busi-
ness has good knowledge and understanding of the requirements for LCAs 
and their importance for our customers or suppliers directly engaged in the 
completion of an LCA. A detailed LCA process description has been launched 
as an instruction to ensure a harmonized approach and standardized meth-
odology. Siemens Gamesa already covers all products by LCAs.
Managing environmental risks 
As part of our holistic product stewardship approach, we take environmen-
tal risks seriously. Our approach is founded on the minimum standards set 
by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) for projects that are reflected 
in our EHS plans, internal EHS guidelines, specific EHS processes and check -
lists for product development, and other ESG criteria from external stake-
holders.
We have further developed our risk management by including an ESG due 
diligence approach for customer projects. We are now screening our prod-
ucts, projects, and services against a list of relevant ESG criteria. In fiscal 
year 2022, we implemented a questionnaire in our sales process for our 
Business Area Grid Technologies. Training will be provided to increase 
awareness and expertise with regard to the criteria.
This ESG risk management combines a due diligence and a risk mitigation 
process. The questionnaire used here is also part of our approach to imple-
menting the requirements of the EU Taxonomyʼs DNSH criteria (DNSH: Do 
No Significant Harm). We identified all relevant existing processes on both 
a corporate and Business Area or location level and completed the map-
ping of all requirements. In particular, our 	Zero Harm Framework with the • Improving environmental performance over our products' life cycle
• Mapping EU Taxonomy criteria based on existing processes
• Developing circular economy potentials for our products
Siemens Energy is committed to promoting greater environmental responsi-
bility and developing environmentally friendly technologies. As a signatory 
to the UN Global Compact, our product stewardship activities aim to con-
tribute to the achievement of the UN SDGs, especially SDG 12 “Responsible 
Consumption and Production,” which seeks to couple economic growth and 
development with sustainable consumption and production patterns. We 
design our products to have a positive impact on sustainable development 
while at the same time reducing negative impacts that may arise from their 
production, use, or disposal at the end of their lifetime. 
The approach to product stewardship at Siemens Energy includes all envi-
ronmental aspects with a strong focus on climate change adaptation, 
resource efficiency, and circularity. We consider all life cycle phases, includ-
ing product development and design, manufacturing, operation, service, 
and end of life. Measures and methods include eco-design criteria for prod-
uct development, life cycle assessments (LCAs), environmental product dec-
larations (EPDs), component upgrades, and lifetime extensions, as well as 
recycling at the end of product life. By analyzing our products, solutions, and services according to business needs such as customer requirements, 
quantifying their impacts, and determining areas for improvement, we are 
building the foundation for deriving and implementing measures that con-
tribute to a circular economy.
Product stewardship at Siemens Energy follows the principles of circularity 
and the key standards of the ISO 14000 series, with individual approaches 
for each Business Area. The approaches are centrally supported by the 
respective global EQS Functions.
Product stewardship is also an integral part of our Zero Harm Framework 
within Siemens Energy. Siemens Gamesa has specifically launched its 	Sus-
tainability Vision 2040 . The aims and objectives of the various approaches 
within the Siemens Energy Business Areas are to prevent adverse effects on 
health and the environment due to our business and operational activities 
(see also chapter 	Occupational health and safety ). At Siemens Energy 
(excluding Siemens Gamesa), product stewardship is covered by the Zero 
Harm building blocks “Material Compliance” and “Life Cycle Assessments.” 
The Material Compliance building block provides guidance on the manage-
ment, analysis, and tracking of restricted and regulated substances in prod-
ucts, services, and solutions. The LCA building block defines the process for 
evaluating the environmental impacts of our products, systems, and materi-When designing and producing our products, we take quality, environmental, 
health, and safety criteria into account at every stage of the productsʼ life 
cycle. We aim to minimize any negative environmental or social impact of 
our products.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 58underlying building blocks serves as a reference for implementing the 
requirements (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
During project execution and the delivery of products and services, we 
build on available environmental impact assessments or otherwise the 
global IFC EHS guidelines to identify measures regarding environmental 
protection. This includes energy consumption, energy efficiency (including 
our own GHG footprint), air emissions, noise, water conservation, waste 
management, and hazardous materials management. Additionally, physi-
cal, chemical, and radiological hazards are also part of our integrated man-
agement system approach at our locations or project sites.
Wherever possible, we partner with suppliers, contractors, customers, and 
other interested parties to meet product-related environmental key business 
requirements. Customer requirements and related resource requirements 
are continuously assessed in each Business Area, and coordinators for prod-
uct-related topics have been appointed. We are working on several pilot 
projects to further increase transparency on additional Scope 3 upstream 
categories, combining location-specific views and product-specific account-
ing to establish a solid baseline and identify further reduction potentials.
Circular economy potentials of the energy transition are a special focus for 
Siemens Energy and, as one example, we are collaborating on the “Circular 
Energy Transition” research project. Started in January 2022, the project is 
set to run until the end of 2024 and is funded by the German Federal Min-
istry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action. Other project partners are 
the Technical University of Darmstadt, the University of Pforzheim, and 
research institute FfE Munich.
At Siemens Gamesa, RecyclableBlades – the worldʼs first wind turbine 
blade that can be recycled at the end of its life cycle – is an important step 
toward the goal of making turbines fully recyclable by 2040. Recyclable-
Blades are available across all Siemens Gamesa turbines. The first 
Recyclable Blades are operating at RWE’s German offshore windfarm Kas-
kasi. Additional blades are being installed at Vattenfall and BASF’s offshore 
windfarm Hollandse Kust Zuid in the Netherlands, and agreements have 
been made to supply RecyclableBlades for EDF Renewablesʼ offshore wind-farm in France as well as RWEʼs offshore windfarm in the UK, the Sofia 
project, and the Danish project Thor. GreenerTower is another innovation 
that increases the use of recycled steel in the towers of wind turbines (see 
chapter 	Customers and innovation ).
Circular economy
Siemens Energy works toward a circular economy in which the need for 
raw materials and the emissions generated over the product life cycle are 
significantly reduced by keeping used products and materials in the loop. 
To realize this ambition, we need to understand product life cycles to iden-
tify circularity potentials. A number of research projects with internal 
experts and external partners help us come closer to solutions.
Life cycle assessments and environmental product declarations
To understand and reduce the environmental impact of our products over 
the entire life cycle and to identify circularity potentials, we have adopted 
a sustainable management approach by conducting life cycle assessments 
(LCAs) and publishing environmental product declarations (EPDs). The LCA 
and EPD approach is managed globally by the EQS Function and is closely 
linked to organizational teams dealing with product-related environmental 
protection. We have developed and published our internal LCA instructions 
to further standardize and align our approach and respond to customer 
requests. LCA-related background information, like an overview of stan-
dards and links to tools and tutorials, is available on a dedicated LCA 
intranet site.
The results from LCAs are used to
• identify opportunities to improve environmental performance in all life 
cycle stages, from the design of the product to its end of life – for exam-
ple, improving material selection and resource consumption, optimizing 
manufacturing processes, and considering further circular economy 
aspects throughout all life cycle stages of a product; and
• communicate environmental performance and improvement potential 
to internal and external stakeholders.To increase transparency on the environmental performance of our prod-
ucts and facilitate dialogue with our customers and stakeholders, Siemens 
Energy uses EPDs that are based on ISO 14021 for Type II product declara-
tions and labels that address environmentally relevant information for cus-
tomers, mainly based on full-scale LCAs. We also carry out an external ver -
ification of our LCAs where required. A recent example from the reporting 
year was the LCA for a switchgear.
We continuously review our LCAs and EPDs. The table below provides a 
summary of the number of LCAs (full-scale and screening) and EPDs. The 
number of LCAs significantly increased in 2023 because all Business Areas 
continuously work to cover more of their products with LCAs, mainly due 
to customer requests.
LCAs and EPDs September 30
2023 2022⁴
LCAs (no.) 347 311
thereof full-scale¹ 346 310
thereof screening² 1 1
Portfolio coverage by full-scale LCAs (%)³ 73 72
EPDs (no.) 251 243
¹  Full-scale LCAs adopt a comprehensive approach, covering the environmental impacts over the entire life cycle.
²  Screening LCAs cover environmentally relevant parts or phases of a product life cycle.
³  The share of full-scale LCAs is calculated based on the business segment structure. One business segment is 
considered to be one portfolio element. All portfolio elements containing material products have been deter -
mined to be relevant for this performance indicator. If full-scale LCAs are available for products of a portfolio 
element, this portfolio element is considered to be covered. The share represents the percentage of covered 
portfolio elements relative to the total number of relevant portfolio elements.
⁴  Due to the inclusion of customer-specific analyses, 82 full-scale LCAs and 85 EPDs have been added to the totals 
of 2022. These customer-specific analyses were calculated in 2022 but not considered in last yearʼs figures. The 
addition does not affect the portfolio coverage of 2022.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 59Eco-design
To increase the sustainability of our products and comply with environ-
mental requirements, we set a particular focus on comprehensive eco-de-
sign concepts. Our eco-design approach serves several purposes and links 
existing requirements with upcoming ones such as EU Taxonomy require-
ments. Therefore, the structure of our approach has been aligned with the 
structure of the EU Taxonomy DNSH criteria. The eco-design decisions we 
make today need to consider future legal and EHS requirements as well as 
the implications of resource scarcity.
The Business Areas will prioritize the review and analysis of our products, 
based on customer and market requirements. In the future, the results of 
the detailed eco-design evaluation are intended to be played back into the 
PLM process and considered during product development and improve-
ment.
Material compliance
A large variety of materials and substances are used in our products, man-
ufacturing, and services. Only a few are subject to closer scrutiny (e.g., 
chromium, lead, PFAS, etc.). The nature and quantity of substances and 
materials used in products are becoming increasingly relevant, especially if 
parts of the product or materials are being reused or recycled. Further -
more, the European Commission has published a list of critical raw materi-
als that is subject to regular review and updates. Transparency regarding 
materials and substances is one of the key enablers for a circular economy 
and the upcoming EU initiative for sustainable product design.
We aim to comply with all legal requirements, such as REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), RoHS (Restriction 
of Hazardous Substances), and similar international requirements. Siemens 
Energy uses globally standardized materials and substance registers for 
restricted and declarable substances and products. The updated ECHA list 
identifies any substances that need to be declared for each product (ECHA 
= European Chemicals Agency). As part of the Siemens Energy supplier 
assessment and qualification process, suppliers are required to identify whether any of their products or components contain substances that 
need to be declared according to the specific legislation. Suppliers then 
need to provide a detailed declaration should any such substances be used 
within their design and manufacturing activities.
At Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), we encourage our suppli-
ers to use the industry substance management platform BOMCheck to 
share declarations for Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) and link 
this information to our IT systems. In this way, we can actively manage 
risks related to substance restrictions. The implementation of the Sub-
stances of Concern in Products (SCIP) reporting requirement, a database 
established under the EUʼs Waste Framework Directive that registers prod-
ucts containing SVHCs, is still ongoing.
Furthermore, these Business Areas have further developed a cross-func-
tional material compliance approach in cooperation with the Procurement 
department, and implementation is ongoing. We achieved increased trans-
parency regarding substances in our products during supplier qualifica-
tion. The approach focuses on full bill-of-materials (BOM) data provision 
with substance management. The coverage of the value chain has pro-
gressed. We are continuing to digitize information on materials and sub-
stances and increasing the number of suppliers reporting via this platform. 
In addition, our new SAP system is in development to cover more material 
compliance aspects. For recent projects, we evaluated BOMs for compli-
ance with REACH Lists of Declarable Substances and compiled BOM-based 
declaration information for our internal partners. We are currently review -
ing the material data landscape for the new SAP platform to also support 
substance management compliance in engineering. For projects, any dec-
laration of substances, e.g., regarding SVHCs, is possible.
The transparency of materials and substances across our product portfolio 
is key to a sustainable energy supply and to making informed decisions 
about material selection and related impacts. Furthermore, industry is cur -
rently facing the challenge to provide more detailed reporting on GHG 
emissions from materials to meet the requirements of the EU Green Deal. 
The EU Taxonomy (see chapter 	Decarbonization ) will also lead to a need 
for action on the part of companies.A greener future with EcoTransparency
The Siemens Energy EcoTransparency app is a new tool that aims 
to provide full environmental impact transparency, helping our 
customers in their transition to more sustainability. Using life cycle 
assessment methodology, the app calculates the carbon footprint 
of our products, not only of the overall product but of every ele-
ment that goes into that product, including raw materials and the 
energy used for producing them. Our sales team uses the app to 
help our customers understand and make decisions based on the 
carbon footprint of the products they are ordering. At the same 
time, our product designers use it to develop more sustainable 
products by identifying areas for improvement.EcoTransparency app: Helping customers with their sustainability transition.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 60As part of the ongoing integration, Siemens Gamesa, within its substance 
management process, also evaluates requests for the use of new chemical 
products against a specific list of prohibited products and a list of restricted 
products. This process will lead to the adaptation of the Siemens Energy 
framework to harmonize material compliance management approaches.
Product safety
Product safety encompasses the safety of all products, solutions, and ser -
vices manufactured, provided, and/or sold by Siemens Energy. These prod-
ucts, solutions, and services are developed according to the latest technical 
knowledge and comply with applicable legal requirements to ensure that 
they do not pose an unacceptable risk to life, health, property, or the envi-
ronment. Product safety is a fundamental and indispensable principle at 
Siemens Energy. Our product safety strategy includes a framework with key 
processes, which are published in the Process Houses (e.g., Risk Assessment 
or Product Safety Issue (PSI) Handling). The framework is complemented by 
rules and regulations and an organizational set-up with clearly defined 
roles and responsibilities, principles for awareness, skills, and know-how.
The product safety system at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) 
was implemented in October 2021. The system focuses on both the techni-
cal and organizational aspects of product safety. Its effectiveness under -
goes continuous evaluation and improvement.
In fiscal year 2023, improvement measures included a specific training 
course for product safety officers and their line managers (approximately 
250 persons) and the launch of an all-employee training video available in 
six languages (approximately 3,000 persons had participated in this train-
ing by the end of the financial year). Numerous workshops have been held 
to analyze our strengths and weaknesses and collaborate to better serve 
our customers, both internal and external.
During fiscal year 2023, no significant product safety incidents were reported.Integration of Siemens Gamesa
Siemens Gamesa assesses the impacts of its products on the health and 
safety of its customers as early as the initial development stage, with the 
aim of improving them through design and project management policies. 
This is achieved by describing product safety as an umbrella term for the 
quality management and HSE procedures and processes we have in place to 
protect customers, employees, and members of the public from any risk 
derived from our products or our manufacturing, installation, operating, 
and decommissioning activities. Management procedures are in place to 
establish responsibilities, workflows, and activities to ensure that compo-
nent designs are optimal and do not produce unnecessary hazards or endan-
ger the health and safety of those working directly with the component.
For instance, Siemens Gamesa has issued an instruction that defines the 
processes for ensuring the wind turbines and/or related products that we 
put on the market in the European Union or European Economic Area (EEA) 
comply with the directives that apply inside and outside the EU, where 
those requirements are established by contractual obligations to customers.Siemens Gamesa has been working on different focus areas. The Business 
Area has established the CMSE (Certified Machinery Safety Expert by PILZ) as 
the minimum certificate any product safety specialist in design development 
should have, with close to 90% of the specialists certified by now. This certif-
icate is now included in the Product Safety Specialists onboarding program.
In addition, specific training programs for product safety experts have 
been developed to safeguard full expertise in critical product safety aspects 
in wind turbines, such as functional safety and major hazards.
One of our best product safety achievements in fiscal year 2023 was the 
implementation and training program of the new harmonized CE Marking 
regulation. This procedure applies to Siemens Gamesa as a whole and spe-
cifically to the process of placing a product that has been manufactured by 
Siemens Gamesa on the European single market and in other countries 
where requirements established by contractual obligations toward cus-
tomers are defined as mandatory by the European Union. Ten live training 
sessions with close to 200 attendees completed the implementation pro-
cess of this new regulation.
Sustainable balsa wood as a core material for wind turbine blades 
To reduce the environmental impact of wind turbine blades, Siemens Gamesa is exploring 
the use of balsa wood in the structural core of their blades. Balsa wood is classified as 
hardwood, and it is light and adaptable. These properties make it ideal for many applica-
tions including wind turbine blades, marine, and other mobility applications. Balsa wood 
is fast-growing and does not require the use of fertilizers or other added resources, so, like 
bamboo, it can be grown more sustainably. In Central America, where it is native, balsa 
wood is self-sowing in sometimes inconvenient spots. Balsa can therefore be grown and 
harvested with little environmental impact. Siemens Gamesaʼs goal is to purchase balsa 
wood that has been responsibly sourced to fight illegal logging. The suppliers used are 
required to be certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, DNV-GL, or similar schemes, 
have signed our Code of Conduct, and are monitored regularly.
Reducing the environmental impact of wind turbine blades.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 61Sustainable supply chain management
• The integration of sustainability considerations aims to make  
supply chains more resilient and reliable
• Risk awareness and strategic measures are cornerstones of our  
supplier management
• Systematic audits foster compliance with increasing international 
regulation 
It is not only we ourselves who shape the sustainability of our operations 
but also our approximately 30,000 suppliers across 135 countries world-
wide. Negative impacts in our supply chain, whether environmental or 
social, can quickly reflect on us and thereby harm our processes, reputa-
tion, and, ultimately, financial performance. With a procurement volume 
of €23.5 billion in fiscal year 2023 (fiscal year 2022: €21.5 billion), it is cru-
cial that we manage our supply chain sustainably, transparently, and 
responsibly to make it more resilient. For these reasons, responsible sourc-
ing is one of the material topics in our sustainability approach. We aim to 
achieve our goals through strong relationships with suppliers that share 
our values and are equally committed to the protection of human rights, 
fair labor practices, anti-corruption measures, and the environment.
By anchoring sustainability criteria in the selection, qualification, assess-
ment, and development of our suppliers, we are also contributing to the 
UN SDGs. We see our biggest contributions to SDG 8 “Decent Work and Eco-
nomic Growth” and SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production.”  To contribute to these SDGs, we carefully consider labor conditions through-
out upstream production processes and monitor the impact of our activities 
closely. We have also rolled out a global supplier decarbonization program 
to further increase transparency around the carbon emissions in our supply 
chain (see chapter 	Decarbonization ) and address climate protection within 
our supply chain. This, in turn, addresses SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
While it is evident that climate change will have a major impact on global 
supply chains, it is vital to be prepared for other risks, such as global pan-
demics. Since the onset of COVID-19, there have been multiple and ongo-
ing disruptions to supply chains worldwide. With the war in Ukraine and a 
further COVID-19 outbreak in China, the situation has become even more 
challenging. These events are compounding the existing logistics short-
ages and interruptions. Siemens Energy Procurement has been working 
together with operations and our project teams to mitigate the effects and 
safeguard customer commitments. By establishing a systematic supply 
chain resilience and crisis management procedure, we have been able to 
detect risks early on, prepare preventive action, and define mitigation 
measures to reduce risk exposures.
An important factor in our risk management is our relationship with our 
suppliers. We therefore have processes and policies in place that aim to 
ensure suppliers meet specific ESG requirements.Responsible sourcing requires sound supply chain management with due 
respect for sustainability. We work in partnership with our global suppliers  
to live up to international standards for responsible supply chains.
Decarbonization efforts in the Chinese supply chain
Siemens Energy China is working toward building a sustainable and 
connected supplier network as part of the global supplier decarbon-
ization program. The procurement teams engaged with and encour -
aged more than 300 suppliers to implement decarbonization mea-
sures, and requested suppliers to increase their green electricity 
coverage to at least 70%. Proactive measures were taken to communi-
cate with internal and external stakeholders, and a competitive price 
for green electricity certificates (I-REC) was successfully negotiated for 
the suppliersʼ network. In fiscal year 2023, about 52% of the suppliers 
had implemented decarbonization measures, with the other suppliers 
continuing to be further monitored. To provide additional support, the 
team also conducted decarbonization knowledge training, attended 
by around 130 suppliers.Tackling the decarbonization challenge head on.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 62Binding Code of Conduct for suppliers
All suppliers and third-party intermediaries of Siemens Energy must sign 
the Code of Conduct (CoC) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. 
The CoC is based on the Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and Principles 
of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The CoC requires specific environmen-
tal, compliance, and labor standards to be established across all countries 
of operations. In fiscal year 2023, we expanded our CoC to include all 
aspects of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. It now covers the 
following topics:
• Human rights, including (among others): 
 ›Prohibition of forced labor
 ›Prohibition of child labor
 ›Non-discrimination and respect in employment
 ›Freedom of association and collective bargaining
 ›Working hours & wages for employees
 ›Life, health, and safety of employees
 ›Impact on communities
 ›Security forces
• Environmental and climate protection, protection of  
natural resources
• Fair operating practices, including (among others):
 ›Anti-corruption and bribery
 ›Fair competition, anti-trust laws, and intellectual property rights
 ›Conflicts of interest
 ›Anti-money laundering, terrorist financing
 ›Data privacy and cybersecurity
 ›Foreign trade regulations
• Responsible minerals sourcing
• Grievance mechanism
• Compliance with the CoC principles in the supply chain of  
the supplierComprehensive supplier management 
Siemens Energyʼs supply chain management approach defines strategic 
procurement processes to sustain the companyʼs long-term success, which 
are overseen by the Head of Procurement, reporting to the Executive 
Board. The approach includes purchasing materials and services cost-ef-
fectively, ascertaining high quality standards, and identifying and exploit-
ing opportunities to create value by fostering compliance and sustainabil-
ity along the entire supply chain.
The supplier management process encompasses an extensive range of pro-
cedures and tools to enable transparency and awareness regarding 
expenses, supplier data, and related risks and opportunities. It helps man-
agers leverage the potential of our supplier network. The Siemens Energy 
procurement process includes criteria such as financial stability, quality, 
and availability, as well as sustainability criteria such as contractor safety, 
substance declarations, and sustainability and cybersecurity self-assess-
ments. As part of Siemens Energyʼs overall approach to decarbonize its 
operations throughout the value chain, we are actively encouraging our 
suppliers to reduce their carbon emissions as well (for more information, 
see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Risk awareness
Using our sustainability risk analysis system, we systematically identify 
potential risks in our supply chain every year. The cornerstones of this sys-
tem are:
• Identification of risks and categorization of commodities
• Establishment of risk levels for individual countries and industries 
(determined using sustainability indicators for key areas such as compli-
ance with laws, bribery and corruption, human rights in the workplace, 
child labor, etc.), making use of information supplied by internationally 
recognized organizations
• Use of different strategic measures, for example, special preparation of 
projects with large local procurement volumesCornerstones of our risk analysis system
Categorization of  
commoditiesRisk levels  
for individual  
countries
Strategic  
measuresAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 63To further strengthen Siemens Energyʼs supplier sustainability risk man-
agement system, we have extended the calculation of social risk hours for 
our suppliers and their scope of supply to all risk categories that are 
addressed by the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. This risk indica-
tion is not limited to country risks, but also includes commodity-specific 
risks. It additionally supports buyers through the prioritization and nomi-
nation of high-risk suppliers for conducting external sustainability audits.
For the implementation of the updates, four training courses on the supply 
chain sustainability risk management system have been conducted for the 
global community of Siemens Energy procurement experts.
Supplier assessment
We use sustainability self-assessments (SSAs), covering all major aspects of 
the CoC, as part of the supplier qualification process that is regularly 
reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect new standards and regula-
tions. Potential new suppliers undergo a qualification process, while exist-
ing suppliers are re-evaluated every three years.
Compared with fiscal year 2022, the number of SSAs increased by 97% to 
6,819 conducted self-assessments. This can be explained by the extension 
of the process to all countries of Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa), and Siemens Gamesa’s high number of new CoC registrations 
that increased the number of self-assessments, as well as the roll out of 
the ESG Risk and Performance Management Framework.
Furthermore, we conduct quality audits that include questions about sus-
tainability, covering major aspects and requirements of the CoC. In fiscal 
year 2023, we conducted 740 on-site audits worldwide, compared to 961 
supplier quality audits in fiscal year 2022. This decrease was due to 
Siemens Gamesaʼs integration of Senvion and Adwen and the smaller 
backlog of supplier qualifications.We see external sustainability audits (ESAs) as the most effective means of 
reviewing our suppliersʼ sustainability performance. Focusing on quality 
and objectivity, external audit partners conduct the ESAs. We assign repeat 
or follow-up audits if necessary. In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy con-
ducted 194 ESAs. This number increased from 167 audits in fiscal year 
2022. Furthermore, we accepted 71 ESAs of suppliers that were audited by 
other companies. We only accept audits that fulfill our requirements and 
where the full audit documentation is provided to us.
Throughout the supplier assessment processes, we remain committed to 
the partnership with our suppliers and to helping them improve. However, 
if problems persist and/or the suppliers do not show a willingness to take 
necessary corrective action, we remove them from our list of approved Insourcing of Supply Chain Due Diligence
Siemens Energy intensified its supply chain due diligence engage-
ment with its suppliers by building up an internal Due Diligence 
team in India. The team will conduct supply chain due diligence 
with thousands of Siemens Energy suppliers globally and contrib-
ute to several due diligence laws. As part of the onboarding pro-
cess, intensive on-site training on the new supply chain risk man-
agement approach was conducted in September 2023, titled 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing and Decarbonization@supply 
chain. Additionally, for the HUB Middle East Procurement and 
HUB Asia Pacific Procurement, on-site workshops were con-
ducted, during which the governance and sustainability road-
maps for the regions were agreed upon.
External 
sustainability 
audits: 
194Sustainability
assessments:
6,819
Supplier quality 
audits by internal 
experts:740Supplier sustainability assessmentsAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 64Sustainability self-assessments (SSAs)¹ Fiscal year
2023 2022
Number
Europe, C.I.S.², Africa, Middle East 3,604 1,256
Americas 1,442 768
Asia, Australia 1,773 1,442
Total 6,819 3,466
Improvement measures³ agreed upon
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 1,407 305
Respect for the basic human rights of employees 667 154
Prohibition of child labor 0 7
Health and safety of employees 1,393 282
Environmental protection 1,940 455
Supply chain 1,110 150
Responsible minerals sourcing 161 9
Total 6,678 1,362
¹  Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa): To be conducted by all suppliers with a purchasing volume > 
€10,000 p.a.; Siemens Gamesa: To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchas-
ing volume > €50,000 p.a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review.
² Commonwealth of Independent States.
³  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and a lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. Siemens Gamesa data reported from May 2022 onward.Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions Fiscal year
2023 2022
Number
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Africa, Middle East 334 615
Americas 266 148
Asia, Australia 140 198
Total 740 961
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.External sustainability audits (ESAs) Fiscal year
2023 2022
Number
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Africa, Middle East 77 61
Americas 21 16
Asia, Australia 96 90
Total 194 167
Improvement measures² agreed upon
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 395 392
Respect for the basic human rights of employees 1,034 915
Prohibition of child labor 23 27
Health and safety of employees 933 895
Environmental protection 36 52
Supply chain 97 111
Total 2,518 2,392
Accepted ESAs 71 76
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
²  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. suppliers. All local instances of blocked suppliers are reported to Corporate 
Procurement, which discusses and decides on the need for a worldwide 
block. In fiscal year 2023, no supplier was dismissed, since all suppliers 
with negative results are collaborating and implementing corrective 
actions.
In addition to the processes described above, we have a Central Warning 
Message system in place. This facilitates a fast, efficient response to viola-
tions of the CoC requirements. The responsible procurement departments 
at Siemens Energy are authorized to agree on a series of remedial steps 
with the supplier. Potential misconduct can be reported via the whis-
tleblower hotlines “Speak Up” at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) and the “Integrity Hotline” at Siemens Gamesa (for more informa-
tion, see the chapter 	Compliance and integrity ).
To inform Siemens Energy employees, suppliers, and further external 
stakeholders, a web-based training course that explains Siemens Energyʼs 
approach to promoting sustainability in its supply chain is published on 
Siemens Energyʼs website.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 65Responsible minerals sourcing
We are committed to preventing the use of minerals from conflict-affected 
and high-risk areas in the supply chain that are affected by the risks defined 
in Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply 
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. To this end, 
we have adopted a Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy to provide a uni-
form, company-wide supply chain management standard. To determine 
the use, sources, and origin of these minerals in our supply chains, we 
investigate the smelters involved. Siemens Energy is part of the steering 
committee of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), which provides an 
assessment program for smelters, the Responsible Minerals Assurance Pro-
cess.
When surveying our approximately 1,400 (fiscal year 2022: 1,600) relevant 
suppliers, we use the RMI’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to obtain 
the necessary information on smelters producing tin, tantalum, tungsten, 
and gold (3TG). We are actively involved in the Responsible Minerals Assur -
ance Process by screening smelters for eligibility and encouraging uncerti-
fied smelters to take part in the RMIʼs assessment programs. All newly 
reported smelters are shared with the RMI.
Based on risk sources identified by the EU, which cover armed conflicts, 
weak governance, and human right abuses, Siemens Energy also conducts 
a specific mineral risk assessment to identify other relevant minerals apart 
from 3TG. After cobalt, copper, and rare earths, we added mica to our sup-
ply chain due diligence processes according to the 5-step framework of the 
OECD Due Diligence Guidance. In addition to our RMI membership (mem-
ber of the RMI Steering Committee) and strategic partnership with the 
European Partnership for Responsible Minerals, where we are a member of 
the governance board, we are actively engaged in Copper Mark, an assur -
ance framework promoting the responsible production of copper.Due diligence: blockchain traced copper supply 
chains
Building transparency in dynamic multi-tier supply chains is critical 
to continuously improving our environmental and social footprints. 
All our products consist of raw materials, with the mining of miner -
als and metals in particular coming with potential negative environ-
mental and social impacts. To manage these impacts, we need to go 
beyond our direct (tier 1) suppliers. Accordingly, Siemens Gamesa 
has initiated a pilot project, which is utilizing blockchain technology 
to improve the traceability of copper material flows within our sup-
ply chain. Blockchain technology can help build transparency for 
complex products and verify the chain of custody down to the mine 
from which the raw materials originate. The pilot project is being 
run in collaboration with our partners across the value chain to 
jointly build transparency along multi-tier supply chains.Blockchain technology: Building transparency to support sustainable supply chains.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 66Human rights
• ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (in 
particular on the following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition  
of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association, 
the right to collective bargaining, and fundamental freedoms) 
• UN Sustainable Development Goals  specifically SDG 8 “Decent Work and 
Economic Growth,” which we have defined as one of our priority SDGs 
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) 
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
• Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),  
to which we are a signatory
Identified human rights risk areas
Our risk analysis has identified the following human rights risk areas for 
our own business operations as well as our suppliers. The results of the risk 
analysis flow into our corporate decision-making processes and help us 
identify appropriate preventive measures.
Anchoring our commitment
Our commitment to respecting human rights is written into Siemens 
Energy and Siemens Gamesa Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). Both 
BCGs are binding for all executives and employees worldwide. To enforce 
the BCG commitment, employees are trained in the respective require-
ments of the BCGs and are requested to acknowledge them as part of their 
conditions for employment (see 	Compliance training program ).• Compliance with international conventions and principles
• Human rights anchored in Business Conduct Guidelines and  
revised Code of Conduct
• Human rights due diligence mitigates risks along value chain
As a globally operating company, we are aware of the impact our business 
has on people around the world, especially from our large-scale energy 
projects. We are dedicated to responsible business conduct and committed 
to ensuring respect for human rights within our spheres of influence. Iden-
tifying and managing our human rights impacts and mitigating risks along 
our entire value chain is therefore imperative.Our actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations; 
they include our commitment to:
• International Bill of Human Rights , consisting of:
 ›Universal Declaration of Human Rights
 ›International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and
 ›International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights 
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of 
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy Upholding human rights in our own operations and business relationships  
is a fundamental responsibility for us as a global company.
Overview of material human rights topics
Respect for human 
rights by security forcesProhibition of  
forced laborHealth and safety  
at workFair remuneration Freedom of association 
(collective bargaining)Prohibition of 
discriminationBan on child laborAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 67On January 1, 2023, the Executive Board appointed Group Compliance Offi-
cer Dr. Anita Schieffer for the newly created position of Human Rights Offi-
cer. Our Human Rights Officer monitors and reports on human rights com-
pliance to the Executive Board in the course of quarterly meetings of the 
Compliance Review Boards and on an ad hoc basis.
In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy published a Policy Statement on 
Respect for Human Rights and Environmental Protection on its global web-
site. We communicated it to our employees, thus further raising awareness 
for human rights. We also provided information on the scope and rele-
vance of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act as part of an “Integ-
rity Week.”
We maintain regular exchanges with networks such as econsense, a Ger -
man sustainability network of internationally operating companies, partic-
ularly with a view to the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act.Respect for human rights in employee relations
We are committed to human rights in our employee relations. For more 
information, see chapter 	Working at Siemens Energy – Thriving environ-
ment through inclusion and diversity , and for safe and healthy working con-
ditions, see chapter 	Occupational health and safety .
Respect for human rights in the supply chain and in business partner 
relations
Our business partners are required to comply with the Siemens Energy CoC 
for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries, which is based on the princi-
ples of the UNGC and the ILO but contains more far-reaching requirements. 
The CoC places particular emphasis on respect for the basic human rights 
of employees, including fair remuneration, freedom of association, health 
and safety standards, and the prohibition of discrimination, forced labor, 
and child labor. In fiscal year 2023, we expanded our CoC to cover all 
aspects of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. It now also includes 
the following topics: impact on communities, security forces, and protec-
tion of natural resources. To support our suppliers, we continue to offer 
training on sustainability in the supply chain.
In line with our implemented sustainability risk management system, we sys-
tematically identify potential human rights risks in our supply chain and con-
duct supplier assessments. For more information, see chapter 	Sustainable 
supply chain management .
Human rights due diligence in customer projects
We have a dedicated team that conducts human rights due diligence on 
customer projects. This is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that 
meet defined risk criteria, and the process conforms to the UNGPs. Here, 
we rely on external ESG databases focusing on country-, customer-, and 
project-related risks. The results of the due diligence process including rec-
ommendations for mitigation measures guide the projectʼs decision-mak -
ing. We are continuously striving to improve our due diligence process.Dimensions of human rights
Human rights in the 
supply chain and 
in business partner 
relationsHuman rights in 
employee relations
Human rights in 
customer projectsHuman rights program in Brazil
Large enterprises contribute to and support local and national development, 
but they also impact the surrounding population, with children and ado-
lescents being even more vulnerable to these impacts. In Brazil, Siemens 
Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) developed a human rights program in 
partnership with the Childhood Foundation. The program aims to tackle sex-
ual abuse and the exploitation of children and adolescents living in the com-
munities surrounding major construction sites of Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy Brazil has committed itself to adopting principles and procedures 
that contribute to promoting and guaranteeing the rights of children and 
adolescents in Brazil. This includes raising awareness among and providing 
guidance to employees and third parties on the protection of children and 
adolescents, performing human rights impact assessments for projects 
involving construction sites, defining an action plan to prevent and address 
the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents, and finally, promoting 
decent working conditions for employees and third parties (guidelines on 
quality of life, housing, food, leisure, and commuting for workers).
Transparency and human rights-related query channels
We are aware that some of our business activities take place in difficult 
business environments and are a controversial topic of discussion among 
our stakeholders. We conduct ad hoc risk analyses if there is an alleged 
violation or if there is a notable change in the risk landscape of the supply 
chain. The results of these ad hoc risk analyses will be reported to the Ger -
man Federal Office of Economic Affairs as of January 2024. Any violations 
of human rights within our areas of influence can be reported via our 
grievance mechanisms, including communication channels such as our 
“Speak Up” reporting system and ombudsperson. Please see the chapter 
	Compliance and integrity for more information. In fiscal year 2023, we 
published 	rules of procedure for the handling of complaints via our griev -
ance mechanism on Siemens Energyʼs global website.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 68Compliance and integrity
pliance is the foundation for our decisions and activities. Our motto is: 100% 
Energy, 100% Compliance. This applies worldwide and at all levels of the 
organization. Consequently, compliance is a top management priority. The 
Legal and Compliance department reports directly to our CEO. Moreover, 
our Group Compliance Officer reports on Siemens Energy compliance mat-
ters to the Executive and Supervisory Boards on a quarterly and ad hoc basis.• Our motto: 100% Energy, 100% Compliance
• Strong ethical culture supported by digital tools, awareness activi-
ties, and ongoing communication
• Zero-tolerance approach toward compliance violations
Given the scale of our global operations with customers from a wide range 
of industries in the private and public sectors, we are confronted with 
complex regulatory requirements coupled with increasing stakeholder 
expectations regarding integrity and risk management. In this context, we 
are committed to a strong culture of ethics and compliance. We pursue a 
zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, unfair competition, and other 
breaches of law. When such instances occur, we take immediate action.
We support international organizations that strengthen responsible busi-
ness practices, including the United Nations Convention against Corrup-
tion and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD. Moreover, we contrib-
ute to the achievement of SDG 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions,” 
which calls on companies to reduce bribery and corruption in all forms. 
This in turn promotes fair competition – which benefits innovation-driven 
companies like Siemens Energy. Anti-corruption measures combined with 
strong compliance systems protect companies as well as their employees and shareholders from the risk of possible misconduct. Countries also ben-
efit from stopping corruption, since corruption impedes economic growth 
and hampers sustainable societal development.
For Siemens Energy, compliance means more than adhering to laws and the 
internal regulations detailed in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). Com-We are committed to ensuring that our actions are consistent with our values. 
Compliance is a company-wide responsibility that starts with a clear tone from 
the top of the organization and is based on integrity and robust risk 
management systems.
Anti- 
corruption
Anti-money 
launderingAnti- 
trust
Collective 
actionData  
privacy
Export  
controlHuman  
rightsCompliance focus areasAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 69The compliance system is essential for a 
company-wide zero-tolerance approach
Our zero-tolerance approach requires a robust compliance system of mea-
sures to ensure that business is carried out in accordance with the law and 
our internal rules. The Siemens Energy-wide compliance approach is based 
on three levels of action: prevent, detect, respond. It is rooted in manage-
mentʼs responsibility and is comprised of several focus areas. These are 
expanded upon in our BCG.
Siemens Gamesa has implemented its own compliance system and BCG 
that meet the standard of Siemens Energy.Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program, whis-
tleblower and reporting channels such as the “Speak Up” reporting system 
or the ombudsperson at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), the 
“Integrity Hotline” at Siemens Gamesa, our compliance risk management 
system, and the respective BCG.
The BCG for Siemens Energy outline our internal regulations. They express 
our values, compliance-related responsibilities, and behavioral framework 
for all managers, employees, and Executive Board members worldwide.
Internal investigations, including regular and ad-hoc audits, are essential 
for detecting and clarifying misconduct. Misconduct is met with a clear 
response and immediate consequences.
Moreover, we continuously refine our compliance system to mitigate chal-
lenges and risks arising from changing market conditions and our business 
activities.
Holistic implementation of the compliance system
Our compliance system combines strong central governance with the work 
of qualified compliance officers who aim to ensure its worldwide imple-
mentation.
The entire management team is required to commit to compliance. We 
strive to make our business decisions and activities in accordance with the 
relevant legal requirements and follow our values in alignment with our 
company policies.
We expect the same commitment from all our employees and conduct reg-
ular surveys on integrity to obtain their feedback. For example, compliance 
and integrity issues were again part of our global employee engagement 
survey this year. Based on the feedback received, we will continue our 
communications and training strategies, creating relevant information 
material for factory and service personnel.Compliance training program
Our global compliance training program targets all managers and employ -
ees in positions with a specific risk profile. Those selected are required to 
complete mandatory compliance training.
Continuous improvementPreventRespond
DetectManagement 
responsibilityOur compliance system:  
Management responsibility is the focusCompliance training¹ Fiscal year
2023 2022
Training on Business Conduct Guidelines
Number of targeted employees completing the module 72,807 67,248
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 95 94
Training on antitrust²
Number of targeted employees completing the module 52,406 44,951
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 95 95
Training on export control
Number of targeted employees completing the module 72,044 62,934
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 94 93
Training on data privacy
Number of targeted employees completing the module 72,203 64,637
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 94 86
1  Siemens Energy addresses the same overarching topics, but the detailed content may vary. Figures contain 
employees who were trained in the respective modules, incl. prior years.
2 Excluding Siemens Gamesa. Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 70approach is based on transparency and risk mitigation. The underlying 
principles and procedures are defined in our BCG.
All cases of compliance violations are reported quarterly to the Executive 
Board. Further, our process covers the entire life cycle of the business part-
nership. Our compulsory company-wide Business Partner Compliance Tool 
supports the implementation of the process. Moreover, it ensures the doc-
umentation of relevant information and actions. We continuously enhance 
our business partner due diligence process by systematically reviewing 
complex data sets, using dashboards, and harnessing analytics to improve 
risk management.
Channels for reporting misconduct
We offer all employees and external third parties various confidential 
channels for reporting potential violations. This helps identify and elimi-
nate misconduct. It also protects whistleblowers and the company from 
damage that may result. Such channels include:
• Managers
• Group Compliance Officer
• Compliance department and Legal department
• Human Resources department
• “Speak Up” and “Integrity Hotline” whistleblower channels
• Ombudsperson
• Employee representatives
Information on possible violations can be given confidentially and anony -
mously. We do not tolerate retaliation against complainants or whis-
tleblowers, and any attempt at retaliation will be treated as a compliance 
violation. The same principles apply to any reports of wrongdoing brought 
forward by third parties.
Our Compliance department investigates relevant reports and takes appro-
priate action in accordance with formal company-wide processes.Data privacy
The protection of personal data plays an important role in our digitized 
world. We aim to handle it carefully and responsibly, respecting the privacy 
of the individual. Personal data is processed confidentially and only for 
legitimate, predetermined purposes.
To comply with data protection laws, including the General Data Protection 
Regulation, we have implemented the Siemens Energy data privacy man-
agement system. This system aims to ensure the protection of our custom-
ersʼ, business partnersʼ, and employeesʼ personal data. We predominantly 
operate in a B2B environment where our customers are not end consum-
ers. Nevertheless, we process business-related personal data, such as cus-
tomersʼ and partnersʼ employee data (e.g., business contact information).
On June 22, 2023, Siemens Energy notified the respective authorities 
about a data privacy incident. As many other companies, Siemens Energy 
was attacked by a hacker group, which made use of a zero-day-vulnerabil-We maintain ongoing compliance awareness through various means. 
During the reporting period, this included web-based training on our sig-
nature guideline. A refresher course on our BCG is planned for the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2024. Dedicated compliance and integrity topics are 
communicated across the Group through continuous messaging on corpo-
rate social media (e.g., Viva Engage) and through integrity dialogue 
events, which provide a forum for managers to discuss current compliance 
issues with their teams.
Compliance risk management
Reliable compliance risk analysis is key to the success of our business. By 
identifying risks early, we make informed decisions on how best to avoid 
or mitigate them. We design and integrate bottom-up and top-down pro-
cesses as well as tools to identify potential risk scenarios and take rapid 
and consistent action.
The annual assessment of compliance risks was conducted once again in 
fiscal year 2023. We addressed identified risks through local and central 
measures and monitored them in dedicated workshops. Compliance risk 
management is an integral part of the quarterly company-wide ERM that 
creates further transparency throughout the entire risk environment.
Collaboration with business partners
Siemens Energy can be held liable for the illegal actions of our business 
partners. As a result, Siemens Energy diligently reviews, selects, and care-
fully monitors business partners throughout their life cycle. We oblige our 
business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct (CoC). The CoC is 
based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
and is mandatory for all Siemens Energy business partners. It covers legal 
compliance in general as well as our anti-corruption policies, including 
provisions against anti-competitive practices and conflicts of interest. Our Promoting business integrity in the  
Middle East
To raise awareness and actively contribute to discussions that 
promote anti-corruption and clean business, our Compliance 
Lead for the Middle East, Nadeem Anwar, joined Muhanad 
Al-Saffar, Managing Director Iraq at Siemens Energy, in speak -
ing at a conference organized by the OECD and GIZ. The invi-
tation to this event about “Fighting Corruption and Promoting 
Business Integrity in the Electricity Sector in Iraq” confirms 
the external perception of our company as an expert in the 
fight against corruption in the regional energy sector.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 71Key compliance indicators
We respond to any alleged violation of external or internal rules in accor -
dance with established company-wide processes. In the event of a proven 
violation, we take appropriate disciplinary action. Once we have com-
pleted a compliance investigation and identified a compliance violation, 
our internal processes provide guidance to ensure we take appropriate 
action with those involved. Further, we evaluate and define appropriate 
consequences through disciplinary processes and systematically monitor 
their implementation.
Our internal reviews in the course of our compliance risk management, 
including knowledge gained during compliance investigations and audits 
performed by our internal audit function together with the evaluation of 
case statistics, indicate that our compliance system is well-designed and 
effectively implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses, the envi-
ronments in which we operate, and the wide range of different geographi-
cal regions, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual. With respect to disciplinary sanctions, the disproportionate number of sanctions 
in 2022 is mainly due to cases at Siemens Gamesa India.
Siemens Energy is not aware of having been convicted of any corruption, 
bribery, or antitrust violations in fiscal year 2023. To date, there have been 
no significant issues of non-compliance that have resulted in material 
monetary fines or non-monetary sanctions like the withdrawal of trading 
licenses or licenses to operate in highly regulated industries.
With regard to the process for identifying significant cases of non-compli-
ance as well as further information on non-compliance matters, please 
refer to the Combined Management Report 2023, Chapter 2.8 Report on 
the internal control and risk management system and material risks and 
opportunities, as well as the Notes to the Consolidated Financial State-
ments, Note 18 Legal proceedings.
Achievements 
Siemens Energy reached a number of significant milestones in fiscal year 
2023. These included
• going live with our compliance tool (COSON) for third-party screening, 
compliance approval for entertainment, lodging, and non-local travel, 
sponsoring, donation or charitable contribution, and other contribu-
tions without consideration; and
• celebrating an Integrity Week across Siemens Energy to raise awareness 
for compliance and integrity.
We remain committed to harnessing the potential of digitalization to 
achieve additional efficiency and to further strengthen our compliance 
monitoring system.
We will continue to tailor our compliance system to the unique risks and 
opportunities of our business and the organizational structure of Siemens 
Energy in general. ¹  Documentation of the purpose, risk, and security safeguards for processing activities within the group.Policies and 
guidelines
Response to data 
privacy incidentsKeeping records 
of data process-
ing activities¹
Training and 
awareness 
measures for 
employeesRespecting data 
subject rights
Transfer  
safeguards within 
the Siemens 
Energy group of 
companiesData privacy management systemity in the IT application “MoveIT”. Internal investigations by Siemens Energy 
came to the conclusion that most of the affected data was not personal 
information. The personal information affected was in general business-  
related contact data. Until the end of the fiscal year, there has not been 
any response from the authorities yet. Apart from that, we are not aware 
of any substantiated complaints made in this reporting period relating to 
the protection of customer data.Compliance indicators Fiscal year
2023 2022
Compliance cases1 reported 126 118
Disciplinary sanctions275 188
 thereof warnings 41 55
 thereof dismissals 28 110
 thereof other36 23
1  Compliance cases include, but are not limited to, cases related to our focus areas of anti-corruption, anti-money 
laundering, anti-trust, data privacy, export control, and human rights.
2  Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do not necessarily correspond to cases reported during that 
period: sanctions are frequently not implemented in the same year in which the case was reported or the in-
vestigation – which follows a defined process – was completed. In addition, a single case may result in multiple 
sanctions, or none at all.
3  Includes loss of variable and discretionary compensation components, transfer, and suspension, but not the 
revocation of signatory rights.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 72Working at Siemens Energy
• We strive to be the employer of choice in the energy industry  
and to attract, develop, and retain a future-ready workforce
• We focus on creating diverse, inclusive, and welcoming workplaces 
where people can unleash their full potential
• We are investing in our strategic People Agenda, which is aligned 
with our company strategy, values, and behaviors
Through our human resources (HR) activities, Siemens Energy contributes 
directly to SDG 4 “Quality Education,” SDG 5 “Gender Equality,” SDG 8 
“Decent Work and Economic Growth,” and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities.” 
We do this through our People Agenda, our HR Strategy designed to pre-
pare the company for the future and drive the energy transition from a 
people perspective.
The People Agenda, including its programs and strategic initiatives, is 
founded on three main building blocks: “Thriving environment,” 
“Game-changing leaders,” and “Vibrant workforce.”
In the spirit of “Just Transition,” a concept that is part of the EU Green Deal, 
we are committed to making the transition employee-friendly and socially 
fair and acceptable. We do this by mirroring the political efforts in the 
regions affected by the shift from fossil to renewable energy with its associ-
ated evolution in the job market. We drive strategic workforce planning to 
obtain organizational transparency on the structural evolution and needs in the job market, and hence our workforce, and seek to offer adequate train-
ing and provide fair conditions, such as wages and benefits.
To underline that people are a top management priority for Siemens Energy, 
the HR department is led directly by the CEO. The operational responsibility 
for topics such as talent management or compensation and benefits lies with 
the Centers of Competence, which regularly report to the Executive Board.
Thriving environment
We are striving for an environment for people to be self-directed, to have 
responsibility, and to find meaning in their work. We guide this by setting 
standards through our Inclusion & Diversity Framework, applying new 
ways of working, and establishing cross-organizational networks. 
Fostering inclusion & diversity
We want everyone to bring their whole self to work and reach their full poten-
tial. Our workplace environment is open to everybody regardless of their eth-
nic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, or gender expression. We strive to offer our employees equal 
treatment in a non-discriminatory work setting. To emphasize the relevance 
of inclusion & diversity (I&D) for Siemens Energy, our Chief Financial Officer, 
Maria Ferraro, is also Chief I&D Officer and leads our I&D Decision Board.With our People Agenda and our corporate culture as a foundation, we aim to be the differentiator 
in the market for our customers, investors, suppliers, partners, employees, and society.
 Unleash the Human 
EnergyPeople analyticsSE VoicesTransformation 
platforms & 
networkInclusion & diversityFuture work
Strategic 
workforce 
planningSuccession 
managementLeadership 
diagnostics & 
coachingTransformation 
journeyLeadership 
programsLeadership 
Essentials
RecognitionCompensation 
& benefitsPerformance 
managementDevelopment 
landscapeTalent acquisition
 Vibrant workforce
 Game-changing leaders
 Thriving environmentOur People AgendaAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 73Our holistic I&D Framework supports our ambition and contributes to the 
promotion of I&D. The following measures were taken in fiscal year 2023, 
in addition to the measures established in past years, such as mandatory 
diverse interview panels to reduce bias in the hiring process:
• Global partnership signed on UN Standards of Conduct for Business 
Tackling Discrimination against LGBTI People
• I&D factor established as part of our engagement survey to measure 
and monitor how our employees perceive our progress on I&D
• Further drive the implementation of barrier-free workplaces in our buildings 
and support accessibility in standard tools such as Office 365, to address 
needs and challenges faced by employees with disabilities, promoting 
accessibility, equal opportunities, and inclusivity within the organization.Our core behavior “Be open & inclusive“
Valuing DiversityOur Inclusion & Diversity pillars
1
Equity
We recognize the unique needs of each 
individual or group and remove barriers 
and create opportunities under which 
everyone can participate on equal terms.2
Belonging
We make our mix work by creating 
an inclusive culture where people 
feel respected, engaged, and able 
to speak up and be themselves.3
Society & partnerships
We work together, internally and 
externally, with customers and 
partners to support us in becoming 
more diverse and inclusive.We embed inclusion & diversity in everything we do by using a holistic frame built around 4 strategic focus areas.
4
Accountable leaders
Our leaders are accountable and 
internally and publicly champion 
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
We use “diversity” to describe our commitment to recognizing and respecting the differences between  
people while valuing the contribution everyone can make to our business,  
without any tolerance for discrimination or bias of any kind.
Valuing Inclusion
We use “inclusion” to describe our commitment to being an open and inclusive company,  
striving to create safe, welcoming workplaces with a culture that encourages equality and belonging.Better accessibility in Argentina 
The new offices of Siemens Energy in Buenos Aires 
received an accessibility certificate from the Asociación 
para la Lucha Contra la Parálisis Infantil (ALPI; the Associ-
ation for the Fight Against Infantile Paralysis). Together 
with the Inclusion & Diversity team of the region, we 
continue to work on this initiative to adapt different 
workspaces to the needs of people with disabilities.
Barrier-free office at Siemens Energy in Buenos Aires.• Several activities organized by our networks, our employee resource 
groups, for example:
 ›International Women’s Day: two weeks of more than 20 sessions  
organized by the gender network with around 2,500 attendees
 ›Pride Month in June: six global sessions organized by the Pride  
network (2,900 views) with further regional events
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) aims to reach a share of 25% 
women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2025, and a share of 
30% women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2030. In fiscal 
year 2023, the share of women in top leadership positions increased to 
28% (fiscal year 2022: 22%).Siemens Gamesa aims to reach a share of 25% women in headcount and in 
leadership positions by September 30, 2025, and a share of 30% women in 
headcount and leadership positions by September 30, 2030. In fiscal year 
2023, the share of women in leadership positions was 15% (fiscal year 2021: 
14%).
Apart from increasing the share of women in senior leadership, ensuring 
equal pay for equal work is highly important for Siemens Energy. Our goal is 
to comply with all local regulations for measuring and reporting on equal 
pay. In fiscal year 2022, we began using a standardized methodology to 
identify potential gender differences in pay among employees across 
Siemens Energy, taking into consideration factors such as country, seniority, Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 74and job family. This adjusted pay gap was about 4.81% (as of September 
2023). The calculation methodology was refined in fiscal year 2023 to bet-
ter align with the proposed EU Pay Transparency Directive. We now use 
Hourly Total Actual Direct Compensation (FTE) instead of Annualized Total 
Target Direct Compensation (FTE), computed using payout ratios for the 
previous fiscal year.
On September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy employed about 1,400 people 
with a disability in Germany (September 30, 2022 about 1,400).
Global employee engagement survey
At Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) our bi-annual global 
employee engagement survey gives all employees worldwide the opportu-
nity to share how they perceive our company, culture, leadership, team 
collaboration, and work environment.
In fiscal year 2023, this survey was conducted with a response rate of 77%, 
with approximately 70,000 comments provided. The majority of survey 
scores increased on a global, company-wide level compared to the previ-
ous yearʼs survey.Following common industry practice, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) now uses a new multi-question engagement factor, which mea-
sures the weighted average of four questions: pride, willingness to stay, 
motivation, and taking action. Since the introduction of the new engage-
ment factor in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 (72%), we have already 
seen an increase of 4% to 76% (fiscal year 2022: 69%). The improvement 
area from last year, “Active Engagement,” which measures the extent to 
which employees feel their team took actions to create positive change 
after the last survey, increased by 6% compared to the previous fiscal year. 
This year, it reached a score of 61%, and we strive to improve further.
Siemens Gamesa also strives to periodically carry out employee engage-
ment surveys. In fiscal year 2023, the survey was not conducted due to 
integration activities. During our upcoming integration planning, we will 
plan an aligned timeline rollout.
Game-changing leaders
Leaders need to provide clarity and direction in uncertain conditions. Their 
task is to bring new strategies, new mindsets, and business transformation 
to life, triggered by outside market changes, and role model our Leader -
ship Essentials.
Our six Leadership Essentials (see graphic on the next page) help Siemens 
Energy leaders grow, perform, and deliver our strategic goals. They define 
the qualities we expect of our leaders across all leadership levels and pro-
vide the language we use to hold one another accountable for shaping our 
culture. The Leadership Essentials are not yet rolled out in our Business 
Area Siemens Gamesa. During the upcoming integration planning, we 
strive to identify and plan potential rollout and harmonization opportuni-
ties.Equal pay¹ Fiscal year
2023 2022²
Adjusted pay gap (%) 4.81 5.16
Unadjusted pay gap (%) 4.57 8.22
1  Figures relate to Siemens Energy using a new methodology to calculate the fiscal year 2023 figures. An unad-
justed pay gap refers to the difference between the earnings of men vs. women (mean male vs. female FTE 
Total Direct Compensation in € using actual payout values based on incentive payout ratios from the previous 
fiscal year converted to hourly rates) that could arise from differences in a number of factors, for example, job 
families, geography, relative value of the position, seniority, or gender. An adjusted pay gap refers to the part 
of this difference between the earnings of men vs. women that is attributable solely to gender. The pay gap KPI 
is expressed as the difference between the mean male pay vs. the mean female pay, divided by the mean male 
pay. A positive pay gap KPI is one in favor of men, a negative in favor of women.
²  Fiscal year 2022 figures relate to Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa). For fiscal year 2023, according 
to the previous year’s methodology, the adjusted pay gap is 5.30% and the unadjusted pay gap is 8.86%.Recognition for promoting LGBTQIA+ rights 
in Mexico 
To strengthen the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community in Mex-
ico, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation launched 
the sixth annual “HRC Equidad MX: Programa Global de Equi-
dad Laboral” in December 2022. The program is modeled after 
HRCʼs Corporate Equality Index, the premier LGBTQIA+ work -
place equality benchmarking survey in the U.S., and aims to 
evaluate LGBTQIA+ workplace inclusion at major Mexican busi-
nesses and multinationals. Siemens Energy received certifica-
tion and earned top ratings in the 2023 report. This recogni-
tion was based on our Proud2bMe strategy to deploy actions 
specifically to promote inclusion and visibility for the 
LGBTQIA+ community in our local organization. This includes 
training, campaigns, safe helplines, and surveys to understand 
the key challenges the community is facing.
Celebrating differences and diversity at Siemens Energy.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 75Leadership development
Siemens Energy runs four leadership pipeline programs, targeting leaders 
at different stages of their career. All programs are designed around our 
values, behaviors, and Leadership Essentials. They are the foundation to 
build a strong and diverse leadership pipeline and enhance the overall 
quality and maturity of the leaders across Siemens Energy.
In addition, we created a community network for learning and ongoing 
growth for alumni of the leadership programs.
In fiscal year 2023, we piloted a new leadership development program for 
managers of managers to equip mid-level managers with the tools and 
frameworks they need to implement change and influence upward while 
nurturing a culture of trust. Furthermore, we focused on the compilation 
and design of a holistic and integrated leadership development landscape 
that is intended to be launched next fiscal year.Succession
With our succession risk management, we strive to ensure business conti-
nuity and robust internal succession pipelines for the most critical roles 
across Siemens Energy.
The Executive Board reviews the key roles, quality, and robustness of the 
succession pipelines on a bi-annual basis. The process is supported by key 
performance indicators that provide transparency on the diversity of the 
succession lists, the percentage of candidates from career programs, and 
succession ratios. In addition, we run the annual Board Mentoring Program 
as well as bi-annual Succession Touchpoints for early talents with the Exec-
utive Board.
Siemens Gamesa is not yet integrated in the Siemens Energy succession 
process. During the upcoming integration planning, we aim to identify and 
plan potential rollout and harmonization opportunities.Leadership essentials
Leaders are 
curious learners1
Leaders grow  
our people4
Leaders create  
the future2
Leaders ignite 
change5
Leaders deliver  
as one 3
Leaders stand 
for safety and 
integrity6
Lifelong learning practice in China 
“SELRiseUp” was the first program in China that specifically tar -
geted middle-aged colleagues. The six-month program included 
professional communication training and enhanced learning 
through mentoring and shadowing opportunities. The rationale 
for targeting the mid-aged group was the idea that most training 
is directed at younger colleagues or leadership development with 
little training available around the importance of lifelong learn-
ing and personal growth. The learning journey was received well 
by the participants, with key topics including self-reflection, con-
fidence, anxiety, and self-care while caring for others.
SELRiseUp pilot successfully launched in China to promote lifelong learning.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 76Vibrant workforce
Our ambition is to become the employer of choice in the energy industry. 
In a competitive and volatile environment, competing for talent remains a 
key challenge. Therefore, attracting, hiring, onboarding, developing, and 
retaining a diverse talent pool is key for our future success.
We are doing this by investing in our vibrant workforce. All elements aim 
to contribute to the implementation of our strategy in an employ -
ee-friendly and fair manner. Our focus on building an inclusive workforce 
is key to our efforts to attract people who drive the energy transition.
Employer branding
A strong employer brand, internally and externally, is crucial for our com-
panyʼs success. It aims to attract top talent, foster employee engagement 
and retention, enhance our competitive advantage, and demonstrate what 
we stand for and can offer as an employer. We focus on strengthening our 
employer brand through several activities, including
• conducting an employer brand health assessment to determine  
brand awareness among potential talent and to understand drivers  
for consideration;
• targeted advertising to create awareness for Siemens Energy in key  
markets with significant hiring demands;
• maintaining our career website with a focus on differentiating our 
employer value proposition;
• establishing a strong social media presence on LinkedIn, Facebook,  
and X (formerly Twitter) with targeted recruiting campaigns;
• tracking key performance indicators and external benchmarks to  
measure and optimize targeted employer branding initiatives; and
• utilizing the Employee Referral Program to enable and encourage 
employees to refer external candidates to join Siemens Energy.
Employer value proposition
Our employer value proposition (EVP) helps address questions such as 
what encourages people to join our company, perform at their best, and 
stay with our organization. The EVP aims to be:• Inspirational  – inspires people to act and realize their personal  
ambitions and dreams
• Strategically aligned  – supports our brand purpose, promise, and goals, 
and helps build the culture and brand Siemens Energy is striving toward
• Unique  – describes the characteristics of the employee experience that 
make us different from other employers
• Focused  – emphasizes the most pressing wants and needs of the target 
employee persona
Siemens Gamesa is not yet integrated into the current EVP. During the 
upcoming integration planning, we will identify and plan potential rollout 
and harmonization opportunities.
Promoting early careers
We strive to attract young talents to our workplaces and encourage them 
to contribute to our thinking while also promoting positive collaboration 
and dialogue among different generations.
An example of what we offer is vocational education. With our vocational 
training programs in Germany, we aim to attract school graduates. As of 
September 30, 2023, there were 2,112 (September 30, 2022: 1,865) train-
ees and students enrolled in work-study programs. In addition, there were 
1,104 (September 30, 2022: 897) internals and 1,008 (September 30, 2022: 
968) externals from other companies. In fall 2023, a total of 408 (fiscal 
year 2022: 247) graduates began an internal apprenticeship or a work-
study program, and there were 238 (fiscal year 2022: 275) external train-
ees. We also offer vocational training in several other countries.
In recruiting apprentices, we have pursued a new approach since fiscal 
year 2023. Instead of media advertisements for job offers, we invite appli-
cations with an online questionnaire that focuses on passion, team ability, 
engagement, and motivation.
The Siemens Energy Graduate Program is a two-year experience to 
develop, grow, and retain talented young university and doctoral gradu-
ates. Participants are hired on a permanent contract with all rights and 
responsibilities of an employee. In the first two years of their employment, they are part of the program with three different assignments, including 
one international assignment, and participate in various development 
modules and training courses.
People development and retention
Siemens Energyʼs goal is to continuously develop and retain a robust work -
force that is prepared for the challenges of the energy transition. People 
development and retention is one of our top strategic priorities, since it not 
only benefits employees on a personal level but also propels the company 
forward, fostering a culture of continuous improvement and innovation.
Strategic workforce planning
Strategic workforce planning (SWP) addresses structural workforce changes 
at an organizational level and is intended to ensure that critical roles and 
future-relevant skills are distributed appropriately across all levels and loca-
tions. We strive to close skills gaps and build a robust workforce by specifi-
cally focusing on:
• Build:  upskilling and reskilling our existing workforce in strategic 
growth fields
• Buy:  strategic hiring from the external market
• Borrow:  focused contracting to balance peaks
• Bind:  retaining mission-critical skills
In fiscal year 2023, we focused on creating transparency on strategic work -
force shifts, skills gaps, and future demands required on a Business Area 
and Function level to come to a holistic picture for Siemens Energy, start-
ing with the former GP business. We aim to integrate SWP into the overall 
strategic planning process. SWP is not yet rolled out in our Business Area 
Siemens Gamesa. During the upcoming integration planning, we will iden-
tify and plan potential rollout and harmonization opportunities.
Performance and growth
The performance management processes at Siemens Energy are designed to 
accelerate individual development and create high-performing teams. They 
are open to all employees and built around constant dialogue and feedback, 
individual goals, responsibilities, and regular checks throughout the year.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 77Our regular processes include dialogues about personal development and 
growth. We strive to establish a growth mindset throughout the entire 
organization that helps our employees individually and the company as a 
whole to thrive in a dynamic business environment. In this way, we want 
to enhance performance, foster a positive work culture, and attract talent.
Learning and training
Developing employees in their current roles and for their future careers is 
critical to the success of our business. We strive to promote lifelong learn-
ing, upskilling, and development.
At Siemens Energy, learning takes place on a wide variety of levels – 
on-the-job, through interactions with colleagues, and in virtual and per -
sonal internal or external learning activities.
Our learning opportunities include the following areas:
• Professional skills relevant in specific functions such as sales or  
project management
• Technical skills with regard to our energy technologies, products,  
and solutions
• Digital skills, potentially relevant for all functions, such as data analytics 
or cybersecurity
• Personal skills, relevant for all employees in all functions and roles,  
such as problem-solving, communication, or self-direction
• Self-reflection tools for employees, from simple checklists and self-  
assessments on skills to multi-source feedback
• Transition assistance programs to support continued employability  
or the management of career endings, e.g., through coaching,  
counselling, or a specific qualification initiative in Germany
One example of our measures in fiscal year 2023 is our establishment of 
learning academies with targeted learning opportunities for employees. 
Training courses are selected and developed with internal experts from our 
businesses and Functions and offered on our learning platform. We piloted 
a dashboard to monitor and measure our progress on learning and devel-
opment. We also implemented a tool for employees to upload their exter -nal training certificates to better reflect the training history and learning 
hours per employee. A global communication campaign to promote con-
tinuous and self-directed learning and development is currently being pre-
pared and will be launched next fiscal year.
Our learning platform offers employees worldwide access to e-learning 
modules as well as trainer-led learning options and coaching in different 
languages. The learning platform is not yet rolled out in our Business Area 
Siemens Gamesa. At Siemens Gamesa, the Wind University is the func-
tional training center. It enables learning by delivering a variety of solu-
tions through different learning platforms such as FUSE for workflow 
learning, LinkedIn Learning for standard learning, and the SG Learning 
Web as a formal learning platform.
Siemens Energy spent about €80 million on training activities in fiscal year 
2023 (€69 million in fiscal year 2022). Our employees spent an average of 
12 hours (fiscal year 2022: 10.3) on formal learning activities.Training Fiscal year
2023 2022
Spend on further education (€ million) 80 69
Spend on further education per employee (€) 856 753
Total number of training hours 1,126,608 943,655
On-site 863,356 699,393
Web-based 263,252 244,263
Total average training hours per employee 12.0 10.3
On-site 9.2 7.7
Web-based 2.8 2.7Training Fiscal year
2023 2022
Gender1
Female 171,364 –
Male 948,637 –
Job families²
Customer services 111,561 –
Engineering 106,549 –
Finance 36,396 –
Information technology 43,256 –
Internal services 50,576 –
Manufacturing 50,729 –
Project management 30,374 –
Sales 31,374 –
Supply chain management/procurement/  
supply chain logistics27,173 –
Others 69,433 –
1  The difference is mainly due to the above-average share of product training in male-dominated areas, such as 
technicians working in customer service, maintenance of turbines, and manufacturing.
² Figures relate to Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 78Rewarding our workforce
Siemens Energy strives to offer benefit programs based on local market 
practice that are attractive, fair, and inclusive, taking accessibility for a 
diverse workforce into consideration. Some examples of our benefits are:
• We offer market-competitive retirement plans in 60 countries to around 
60,000 employees focusing on fairness and flexibility for different 
employee groups and their needs.
• We aim to include local benefit initiatives that are environmentally friendly 
– e.g., subsidies for public transport systems or electric benefit cars.
• Long-service awards are provided to recognize dedicated work by 
employees and loyalty of service to our company.
• We seek to offer a range of opportunities to our employees to tailor 
their working times and locations to their needs, such as part-time and 
remote working.
• We aim to foster a family-friendly environment that supports our employ -
ees at crucial moments in their lives. We decided to set a global standard 
in this area and will develop a life-event policy in fiscal year 2024 that will 
grant our employees worldwide a minimum number of days off in the 
case of the following life events:
 ›Childbirth or adoption
 ›Death of a close family member
 ›An employeeʼs close family member requiring care or support for  
serious medical reasons
This global life-event policy aims to be inclusive, accessible, and support-
ive to meet the diverse needs of our employees.
The benefits are not yet harmonized with our Business Area Siemens 
Gamesa. During the upcoming integration planning, we intend to identify 
and plan potential rollout and harmonization opportunities.
About 2,900 employees (September 30, 2022: about 2,900), or 3%, worked 
part-time and around 2,200 (September 30, 2022: about 2,100) were on 
leave of absence.Siemens Energy continuously strives to provide competitive and fair com-
pensation levels to attract, retain, and reward talents. To this end, we con-
sider a variety of internal and external factors that are consistent with our 
corporate culture and values. These include internal pay equality, perfor -
mance, and external competitiveness. Hiring agency workers is common, 
and in many cases, contracts are governed by similar or comparable wage 
policies to those enjoyed by company employees.
Once a year, during the global Merit Round, we review employeesʼ salaries 
in a structured process to identify potential needs for adjustment. We reg-
ularly monitor the market competitiveness of our compensation in terms 
of compensation levels and compensation structure. In fiscal year 2023, 
the review showed that our pay levels are competitive worldwide. Industry 
wage agreements – which Siemens Energy adheres to – supersede the 
national minimum wage in many countries. Compensation structures 
depend on local market practice and the respective position value or class.
In fiscal year 2023, variable pay was governed by a global framework, 
which defined four incentive schemes, leveraging financial KPIs from our 
external financial reporting and a performance multiplier. For eligible 
employees of Siemens Gamesa, the variable pay is governed by a global 
policy as well. Siemens Gamesa Management by Objectives (SGMBO) 
establishes a globally applicable target structure based on four company 
KPIs and an individual component. The company KPIs are weighted with 
70% and the individual evaluation with 30% of the variable pay of the 
around 12,000 employees participating in this plan. As a new KPI, Siemens 
Energy reports the ratio between the average salary of a median employee 
versus our top-paid person. For fiscal year 2023, this ratio stood at 86.
Additionally, we offer a range of share plans for employees at every level. 
They offer our employees the opportunity to invest and benefit from our 
companyʼs long-term performance. Our share purchase program for 
employees at every level is called “Direct Match Program.” In fiscal year 
2023, it was offered in 37 countries to approximately 63,000 employees at 
every level – from shop floor to top management. The program is not yet 
rolled out at Siemens Gamesa, but this is planned for fiscal year 2024.Our senior managers and other employees receive stock awards through a 
ratable vesting scheme as an essential element of the remuneration pack -
age. Senior managers fulfilling a position rated as especially relevant for 
the company have also been granted performance-oriented stock awards 
whose fulfillment is tied to specific KPIs, e.g., a sustainability target. This 
reflects the importance of sustainability for Siemens Energy, not only for 
members of the Executive Board but also for senior managers.
Recognition and celebrating success
We know that our employees are our greatest asset. That is why apprecia-
tion of our employees and a culture of recognition are important to us.
Our Share Thanks And Recognition (STAR) online platform gives an equal 
voice to our employees. They can show appreciation to anyone in the orga-
nization through personalized messages, e-cards, or the awarding of 
points. The platform was rolled out in August 2021, and as of today can be 
used by more than 60,000 employees in 70 countries worldwide within 
Siemens Energy. We plan to implement this tool at Siemens Gamesa after 
the main compensation elements have been harmonized. Until then, 
Siemens Gamesa will keep the non-monetary Thank You Awards, where 
employees can nominate peers, team members, and managers for acting 
as role models in line with the company values.
Employee representation
At Siemens Energy, we highly value employee representation and partici-
pation in accordance with national laws. In Germany, we established a reg-
ular dialogue between company management and employee representa-
tives. At the European level, employee representation takes place in the 
Siemens Energy European Works Council based on the German Act on 
European Works Councils and the Siemens Energy European Works Council 
Agreement. The agreement covers all employees of Siemens Energy and its 
consolidated subsidiaries within the European Economic Area plus the UK.
On a national level, various forms of employee representation exist based 
on national regulations. In Germany, trade union representation is through 
the Industrial Union of Metalworkers, and in many other countries by Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 79domestic trade unions. In addition, in-house employee representation is 
based on national regulations. At German locations, employee representa-
tion is based on the German Works Constitution Act and is realized through 
various employee representation bodies, in particular central works coun-
cils, combined works councils, and local works councils, which are elected 
by the employees. In many other countries, this is based on domestic law. 
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy also contains employee repre-
sentatives as full board members who are – depending on national law – 
either delegated by employees or appointed by the trade union.
Employee structure
As of September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy had about 96,000 employees 
worldwide (September 30, 2022: 92,000), 29,000 (September 30, 2022: 
28,000) of whom worked for Siemens Gamesa. The average number of 
employees during the fiscal year stood at about 94,000 (fiscal year 2022: 
91,000).
Working contracts Fiscal year
2023 2022
Employees with permanent working contract 91,191 88,014
Employees with temporary working contract 4,239 3,744
thereof female employees 927 874
thereof male employees 3,312 2,870
thereof EMEA 2,248 1,682
thereof Americas 90 110
thereof Asia/Australia 1,901 1,952Age and regional structure
 <35
 35-44
 45-54
 >54
1 Commonwealth of Independent StatesEurope, C.I.S1, Africa, Middle East 23% 33% 26% 18%
Americas 25% 30% 23% 22%
Asia/Australia 38% 41% 17% 4%
Total 26% 33% 24% 17%September 30, 2023
Number of employees
Europe, C.I.S1,  
Africa, Middle EastAmericas20%  (20%)
13%  (13%)66%  (67%)
Asia/Australia95,996
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets.
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.September 30, 2023 Women accounted for 20.2% (September 30, 2022: 19.8%) of the work -
force and 23.3% (fiscal year 2022: 22.9%) of all new hires. We expect 10.5% 
of employees to retire within the next 5 years (fiscal year 2022: 10.2%). The 
share of employees with permanent working contracts is 95% (September 
30, 2022: 95.4%). The worldwide average working week at Siemens Energy 
was 39 hours, with no changes in comparison to 2022. The average 
employee age was 42.6 (fiscal year 2022: 42.7). At Siemens Energy, about 
61% of employees (fiscal year 2022: about 75%) are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements worldwide.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 80Employee fluctuation – hires Fiscal year
2023 2022
Hires (thousands) 13.5 10.9
thereof women (%) 23.3 22.9
thereof Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 59.9 59.4
 thereof women Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 23.3 24.1
thereof Americas (%) 25.4 22.5
 thereof women Americas (%) 23.2 20.6
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 14.8 18.2
 thereof women Asia/Australia (%) 23.4 22.0
thereof age <35 (%) 56.7 57.3
thereof age 35–44 (%) 27.0 28.0
thereof age 45–54 (%) 12.0 11.3
thereof age >54 (%) 4.3 3.4
Recruitment rate² (%) 14.4 12.0
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
2  The recruitment rate is calculated as the number of new employee hires at Siemens Energy during the fiscal year 
divided by the average headcount.Employee fluctuation – exits Fiscal year
2023 2022
Exits (thousands) 8.9 9.7
thereof dismissals¹ (%) 9.5 12.5
thereof women (%) 20.3 19.6
thereof Europe, C.I.S.³, Africa, Middle East (%) 60.0 57.1
thereof Americas (%) 25.7 30.4
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 14.4 12.4
thereof age <35 (%) 35.7 32.6
thereof age 35–44 (%) 28.8 28.4
thereof age 45–54 (%) 14.9 15.5
thereof age >54 (%) 20.6 23.5
Turnover rate³ (%) 9.6 10.6
Turnover rate – voluntary (%) 5.0 5.3
Turnover rate – other reasons (%) 4.6 5.3
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).
² Commonwealth of Independent States.
³  The turnover rate is calculated as the number of voluntary and involuntary (all other) exits at Siemens Energy 
during the fiscal year divided by the average number of employees.Contractually agreed weekly working hours (average)1Fiscal year
2023 2022
Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 38 38
Americas 42 42
Asia/Australia 41 41
Total 39 39
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).
2 Commonwealth of Independent States.
Employees on parental leave1Fiscal year
2023 2022
Total 811 –
thereof women 283 –
thereof men 528 –
¹ Reporting on Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) employees in Germany only.Working hour programs Fiscal year
(%) 2023 2022
Employees working part-time 3.0 3.2
Women working part-time 1.9 2.1
Employees on leave of absence 2.2 2.3Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 81Sustainability isn’t just 
about the environment
Sarah Tabet  
Head of Human Resources, Middle East Hub, Siemens Energy 
Everybody knows talent drives a company’s success. So, how do you 
attract, develop, and retain the best talent? Sarah Tabet, Head of HR 
for Siemens Energy in the Middle East, says the answer to talent 
sustainability is creating a unique set of benefits that starts with 
leadership, diversity, and a clear sense of purpose.
I’ve just returned to my desk after sharing a cup of coffee and a conversa-
tion with a colleague here in our new offices at Expo City Dubai. We 
connected as part of the “Coffee Roulette” initiative we host across the 
Middle East as a way to connect with people outside our daily work circle.
Meetings like this, which also occur virtually across the region, are part of 
building the company culture here at Siemens Energy. That culture and 
our broader employer value proposition (EVP) are essential to the long-
term success of our business. 
Sustainability of talent is something I think a lot about in my role. It 
means making sure that we can continuously attract, develop, and retain 
people with the capabilities required for today and for the organization’s 
growth in the future.
Employees want to work in a culture where they can be themselves and 
be creative. They want to know how they add value and what’s the driving 
purpose for them and the company. They want interesting work develop-03:00 p.m. 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
I’ve just returned to my desk after 
sharing a cup of coffee and a conver-
sation with a colleague here in our new 
offices at Expo City Dubai. We connected 
as part of the “Coffee Roulette” initiative 
we host across the Middle East as a way 
to connect with people outside our daily 
work circle.The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 82
ment opportunities in a safe and pleasant environment, where people 
care and can make a difference to society. 
Our leaders help shape this culture by being humble and focused on the 
development of others, by working in collaboration with others, and by 
igniting change toward a more sustainable and inclusive world. 
I am proud to work for a company like Siemens Energy that is focused on 
decarbonizing along the value chain. It’s an important part of the EVP, but 
not the only part. 
Because sustainability isn’t just about the environment – it is also about 
people and societies. Which is why diversity and inclusion, at Siemens 
Energy, is not a nice to have. It’s a business requirement, important for 
employees and for fostering the kind of creativity that leads to truly inno-
vative solutions. For example, we focus on improving our gender diversity 
across the Middle East by partnering with universities that promote 
women engineers or women in science, technology, engineering, and 
math (STEM) to attract and develop young potentials into Siemens Energy.  
We also work with our leaders on how to operate in today’s VUCA – vola-
tile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous – world. It’s essential to have 
people who are agile and resilient and have a mindset that is open to 
change. Which is why I also ask myself: In what small ways can I live more 
sustainably? For example, I can reduce water use at home, ditch plastic 
bottles, avoid food waste, or use the ceramic coffee mugs I make at a 
pottery studio – small things, sure, but small things can have a big impact 
if each one of us does them.
Watch the video:
Diversity and inclusion, at Siemens 
Energy, is not a “nice to have.” It’s a 
business requirement.
The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 83Societal engagement
• Commitment follows global framework with local flexibility
• Educational programs support energy transition and environ-  
mental awareness
• Donations amounted to €2.59 million for projects worldwide  
in 2023
Societal engagement means more to us than just charity. We believe it cre-
ates shared value for society and a competitive advantage for business.
Through our engagement, we contribute to several SDGs. Our technolo-
gy-related activities are driving the energy transition and helping to 
achieve SDG 7 “Access to Affordable and Sustainable Energy.” By providing 
access to education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
(STEM), we contribute to SDG 4 “Quality Education,” SDG 5 “Gender Equal-
ity,” and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities.” And since our community-related 
activities focus on serving local needs, they relate to several SDGs in line 
with SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities.”
The Siemens Energy societal engagement approach combines a global 
framework with autonomy for local implementation in the countries in 
which we operate. To focus our activities and increase our impact, our 
global framework defines three focus areas based on our strategic context, 
our core competencies, the global targets for sustainable development, and the influence that various global megatrends (demographics, urban-
ization, climate change, globalization, and digitalization) have on our 
industry and our business.
The focus areas are:
• Driving the Energy Transition: Supporting clean energy research  
and sustainable development
• Access to Education: Promoting science, technology, engineering,  
and mathematics (STEM) subjects and climate education – especially  
for underrepresented demographics
• Sustaining Communities: Disaster recovery – especially related to  
electricity supply
Across our regions, local Managing Directors develop local initiatives 
within these three global focus areas. In this way, we address the specific 
and unique needs of the country in question. The objective of this 
approach is to
• enhance relationships with customers and partners,
• boost employee engagement,
• generate awareness of our brand, and
• support the companyʼs competitive context.The approach allows for 80% of donations to support the three focus areas, 
10% to be discretionary – supporting causes aligned to customers and 
partners – and 10% to go toward activities in local communities where we 
have operations with a significant employment base.
Siemens Gamesa operates a digital platform to manage its social commit-
ment projects. Aiming to ensure the greatest possible impact from these 
activities, Siemens Gamesa calculates a social return on investment (SROI) 
to quantify the social value of projects as objectively as possible. The inter -
nationally established methodology takes into account the type of project 
beneficiaries, location, and time invested in the project. Siemens Gamesaʼs 
SROI in fiscal year 2023 was €14.09 for every €1 invested (fiscal year 2022: 
€7.63).
Since societal engagement is often driven by individuals, we encourage 
our employees to take social responsibility through our volunteering pro-
grams. Siemens Energy has a volunteering framework in place that encour -
ages employees to volunteer for company-endorsed initiatives.
Siemens Energy contributes to societal development at local levels through 
a range of projects in the designated focus areas.We actively support initiatives that address specific societal needs in the countries in which 
we operate, contributing to STEM and climate education projects as well as disaster relief 
in many communities.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 84Driving the energy transition
A robust energy system is one of the most important prerequisites for the 
sustainable development of societies. This is especially true when it comes 
to providing access to a reliable, sustainable, and affordable energy supply.
We draw on our core competencies and broad portfolio to help shape the 
energy transition by supporting clean energy research and sustainable 
development and projects.
In Olean, New York, U.S., Siemens Energy continued its pilot program to 
support workers displaced by the energy transition. The Olean Energy 
Transition Initiative helps workers find new careers in sustainable technol-
ogies through either re-skilling or a small business incubator initiative. In 
fiscal year 2023, the program was extended for an additional year to 
enable the community to further develop educational curriculum and 
training programs, obtain additional funding, and assist small business 
start-ups. In fiscal year 2023, the small business start-ups program was 
modified to shift funding from a grants mechanism to a loan program, an 
approach that will perpetuate the benefits of our initial funding invest-
ment by allowing for further reinvestment of the repaid loan monies. At 
the end of fiscal year 2023, the pilot program was developed into a blue-
print that will serve as a guide for other communities affected by the 
energy transition.
Forests of Siemens Gamesa is a sustainable development initiative with 
the goal to mitigate climate change and reduce CO2 emissions. Since its 
inception in fiscal year 2021, 32 forests and around 126,000 trees have 
been planted by volunteers in 16 countries (Germany, Denmark, U.S., 
Spain, Morocco, France, United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil, China, India, Phil-
ippines, Ecuador, Vietnam, Uganda, and Ethiopia), contributing to the 
removal of 9,932 metric tons of CO2. In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Gamesa 
created its first balsa tree forest in Ecuador with a total area of three hect-
ares (7,500 trees) planted and nine hectares of primary rainforest pro-
tected. This project includes support for the indigenous Shuar community 
over the next three years.Digital engineering laboratory for the University of Lagos 
Siemens Energy established a state-of-the-art engineering laboratory for stu-
dents at the University of Lagos, Nigeria, to support their learning in program-
mable logic controller (PLC) programming. With this investment, we are pro-
viding appropriate tools to support future generations in developing the skills 
necessary to tackle the challenges of energy security and energy transition.  
To further improve learning and develop better social interaction among stu-
dents, Siemens Energy also added a calming room environment designed to 
help students and faculty decompress, destress, and get ready to learn.
Siemens Energy donates engineering laboratory to the University of Lagos.
Local projects contribute to societal progress worldwide
 1
  7
  8  8
  8
  9 4
 4 4 4
 4 4 5
 5 6
  3  3 1Olean Energy Transition Initiative 
in U.S.
  2Reforestation projects 
in 16 countries, including the Amazon Rainforest
  3One Earth One Ocean cleanup initiative 
in the Baltic Sea and Philippines
 4First Lego League & Coding Teachers 
in Germany, India, Mexico, Morocco, Spain, U.K.
  5Cooperation with universities 
in Nigeria and U.S.
 6Sesame Workshop environmental education program 
in India
  7International Science & Engineering Fair 
in U.S.
  8Donations for victims of natural disasters 
in U.S., Pakistan, Turkey, Syria
  9Just Energy Transition project/Hackathon 
in South Africa  2Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 85In spring of 2023, Siemens Energy also set its focus on reforestation by 
partnering with China Energy Investment Corporation (China Energy) to 
construct a large forestland in Youyu County, located in the northwestern 
part of Shanxi province in China. Siemens Energy joined the well-estab-
lished initiative of the Youyu Public Welfare Forest Demonstration Zone to 
plant approximately 100,000 trees of various types covering more than 
1,000 acres of the zone. This program shows our commitment to achieving 
decarbonization through societal engagement as well as the companyʼs 
strong desire to collaborate with partners like China Energy to launch more 
impactful ESG programs, establish a model for cross-country green part-
nerships, and enhance the environmental awareness of employees and the 
community.
Access to education
The energy transition, key to combating climate change, also requires 
investments in skills. To this end, we are working to extend educational 
and research opportunities to more people. Siemens Energyʼs strategy 
aims to inspire, engage, and stimulate younger generations in STEM sub-
jects and knowledge in clean energy. Our goal is to ensure that the work -
force of the future is diverse, highly skilled, and aware of the importance 
of a sustainable energy transition.
In May 2023, Siemens Energy participated in the International Science and 
Engineering Fair held in Dallas, Texas, U.S., where high school students 
from around the world competed with their scientific and engineering 
innovations, sponsoring the Sustainable Energy Category.The Eskom Just Energy Transition Project in South Africa aims at decom-
missioning the Komati coal-fired power plant and repurposing the project 
area with renewable energy and battery projects while also creating 
opportunities for workers and the community. This transition requires not 
only technology but also the development of new skills and capabilities of 
workers in the energy sector. As part of the project, we created the 
Siemens Energy Youth Just Energy Transition Hackathon. With the goal of 
creating and enabling an environment for engagement with the topic of 
“Responsible Innovation,” the hackathon prioritized SDGs 4 (quality educa-
tion) and 7 (affordable and clean energy) by developing STEM-related 
challenges. The winner presented a convincing approach to phase out 
coal, involving a clever mix of jobs and skill levels built into a renewable 
energy plan, and a combination of technologies selected to achieve the 
goal.
Siemens Gamesa has focused on helping train students and educators in 
the use of technology. Its primary initiative to achieve this has been “Planet 
Rescuers,” a video game on energy and sustainability in Minecraft: Educa-
tion, to attract students aged eight to 14 to STEM through the popular uni-
verse of Minecraft. Confronted with real-life situations, students build indi-
vidual solutions to energy and sustainability challenges while learning 
about the science behind them, such as ways to reduce emissions with 
alternatives like green hydrogen and how they can act to reduce their envi-
ronmental footprint. Since it was launched in March 2021, more than 1,400 
schools and an estimated total of 281,000 students worldwide have 
enjoyed this adventure that was created with support by volunteers from 
Siemens Gamesa.Robotics are becoming a more influential presence in our lives. Therefore, 
Siemens Gamesa promotes robotics and project-based learning for students 
aged six to 16 with FIRST Lego League and for teachers with the digital plat-
form Coding Teachers. This initiative has empowered more than 30,000 
beneficiaries in the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany, Mexico, Morocco, 
and India, thanks to our collaboration with Lego Education through its 
in-class programs and its international competitions. In fiscal year 2023, a 
team supported by Siemens Gamesa won the FIRST Lego Leagueʼs Global 
Innovation Award with a gravity storage system for offshore wind turbines.
In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Gamesa again organized “Universities for SDG 
13,” a global competition promoting university talent in the fight against 
climate change in partnership with the UN Sustainable Development Solu-
tions Network. The winning project was “E-Gora: The Energy Marketplace,” 
a solution by a team from Case Western University (U.S.). It aims to bridge 
the gap between different market players through a user-friendly platform 
that allows small investors, developers, and financial institutions, among 
others, to quickly and easily find information about renewable energy proj-
ects near them in which they can participate. The announcement was 
made during the International Conference of Sustainable Development in 
New York, alongside the UN General Assembly.
Siemens Gamesa also joined an initiative promoted by Sesame Workshop 
Inc. to teach students in India aged six to ten about environmental issues 
related to air quality through its program “Mera Planet Mera Ghar” (My 
Planet, My Home). It is an initiative in collaboration with the organization 
responsible for producing the iconic TV show “Sesame Street” and Lego to 
develop an age-appropriate curriculum, with engaging learning materials 
featuring Sesame Street characters.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 86Sustaining communities
Providing access to basic infrastructure and services is essential for sus-
taining thriving communities. In addition, Siemens Energy is committed to 
providing relief and recovery assistance to areas affected by natural disas-
ters, particularly when the energy supply is affected.
In late September 2022, hurricane Ian struck the southwest coast of Florida 
in the U.S, causing widespread damage. Siemens Energy deployed two of 
its reverse osmosis units to the Park Royal Hospital in Fort Myers. These 
skids are designed to take seawater and turn it into freshwater, providing 
24,000 gallons of clean water per day for approximately 150 people. The 
team was able to produce clean water just two days after the storm hit.In October 2022, Siemens Gamesa launched a matching donation cam-
paign to support the recovery from flooding in Pakistan. The total dona-
tion amounted to €9,978.00.
In April 2023, volunteers from windfarms in Pakistan joined forces to sup-
port those in need during Ramadan by distributing 580 food packages to 
help local people at nine community sites.
In fiscal year 2023, donations from Siemens Energy totaled €2.59 million 
(fiscal year 2022: €3.62 million).
Donations by region Fiscal year
(millions of €) 2023 2022
Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 1.66 2.26
Americas 0.71 0.62
Asia, Australia 0.22 0.75
Total 2.59 3.62
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.Earthquake relief for Turkey and Syria 
After the devastating earthquakes that struck Turkey and Syria in February 
2023, Siemens Energy initiated and supported a range of relief measures, 
including a donation campaign to the Red Cross, which raised more than 
€180,000. In addition, €30,000 were allocated to purchase urgently needed 
goods such as generators, blankets, thermal clothes, childrenʼs boots, and 
coats, as well as hygiene products, all of which were sent to the Kahraman -
maraş area on the day of the quake. As an energy company, we were also able 
to provide pro bono technical support to the relevant government agencies 
and customers to restart the regionʼs energy network. We also have an ongo-
ing hiring scheme in place, targeting university students living in this region. 
Five earthquake-affected working students have now begun part-time work 
with Siemens Energy in engineering, finance, and field service teams.
Strategic development
In fiscal year 2024, Siemens Energy plans to evolve its societal engage-
ment approach by combining the various existing initiatives into a com-
mon new strategy for the next three to five years. The project will consider 
where Siemens Energy can deliver impact in its areas of influence. We will 
examine the impact of the existing programs, gather expectations from 
stakeholders, review best practices, and define initiatives that align with 
our strategic context. The new strategy is being prepared for implementa-
tion starting in the second half of fiscal year 2024.
Aid on route to Turkey following the devastating earthquakes.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 87Annex4
The company and reporting method 88
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 89
Methodology for calculating of Scope 3 – use of sold products emissions 100
Independent auditor’s report on a limited assurance engagement 102
Imprint 104The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 88Siemens Energy AG is incorporated as a stock corporation (Aktienge-
sellschaft) under German law, with its registered office in Munich, Ger -
many. The company is entered in the commercial register of the Munich 
local court (Amtsgericht) under HRB 252581. Siemens Energy AG is the par -
ent company of the Siemens Energy Group.
Siemens Energy holds a majority interest of approximately 67% in Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. (SGRE), Zamudio, Spain, and has acquired 
the outstanding shares, bringing its total shareholding to 92.72%. At an 
extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on January 25, 2023, the sharehold-
ers of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy S.A. approved the company’s 
delisting from Spanish stock exchanges. Following the approval by the 
Spanish National Securities Market Commission, the delisting became 
effective on February 14, 2023. With the approved capital reduction and 
cash-out of the remaining minority shareholders, Siemens Energy fully 
owns Siemens Gamesa effective July 12, 2023. For further information, 
please see our Annual Report 2023.
The shares of Siemens Energy AG are admitted to the regulated market of 
the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and to the subsegment of the regulated mar -
ket with additional post-admission obligations (Prime Standard) (ISIN 
DE000ENER6Y0 / WKN ENER6Y). Siemens Energy is a member of the Ger -
man DAX.
Siemens Energy changed its corporate and reporting structure as of fiscal 
year 2023. As a result of this reorganization, the former Divisions of the 
reportable segment Gas and Power (GP) have been newly structured into Gas Services (GS), Grid Technologies (GT), and Transformation of Industry 
(TI), which together with Siemens Gamesa now form the four Business 
Areas of the Siemens Energy Group. The organizational structure and 
detailed product offerings are described in the chapter “At a Glance.” 
Reporting method 
Sustainability is an integral part of our company strategy. In our Sustain-
ability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “report”), we publish key infor -
mation on our sustainability activities, including aspects such as strategy, 
organization, initiatives, programs, management systems, and goals. As of 
fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy changed its corporate reporting structure 
and reports on four Business Areas: Gas Services, Grid Technologies, Trans-
formation of Industry, and Siemens Gamesa. To comply with the specific 
reporting requirements applying to Siemens Gamesa imposed by Spanish 
legislation (Law 11/2018), Siemens Gamesa has prepared a separate Con-
solidated Non-Financial Statement 2023. While the strategic direction of 
the Business Areas is comparable, management approaches and programs 
may differ. We indicate deviations from a common approach in the rele-
vant chapter.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability 
Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Standards,” see 
 GRI Content Index ). We use the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Frame-
work and its narrative guidance as a guide when reporting on our human 
rights activities. Reporting period and reporting boundaries 
This report is based on activities carried out during Siemens Energy’s fiscal 
year 2023 (October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023). Any exceptions are 
designated as such. We report annually on our progress.
In general, the report covers all of our fully consolidated companies. Possi-
ble exceptions regarding the data pool used are indicated. Minority equity 
investments are not included in the report. To ensure comparability, KPIs 
from previous years may be adjusted where necessary, which will be indi-
cated accordingly.
Data collection
Given Siemens Energy’s size and global presence, data collection requires 
the use of a distributed IT and data environment. Non-financial data cap-
tured may adhere to local rules and regulations, which can deviate from 
the Group’s reporting requirements. To ensure that the Group’s non-finan-
cial reporting is consistent, the data collected is reconciled and adjusted to 
comply with the Group-wide reporting requirements. Any information pre-
sented in this report that is subject to significant data limitations is identi-
fied as such. The non-financial data published in this report is collected 
through various internal reporting systems, which, for the most part, are 
different from those applicable to financial information. Such data may be 
subject to less extensive internal documentation, data generation, and 
auditing requirements, including requirements related to the IT systems The company and reporting methodThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 89used and the general control environment. To ensure data quality and pre-
serve the value of the information, we identify and evaluate data restric-
tions in accordance with our internal guidelines. Where necessary, for 
example with a view to consistency, this may include the exclusion of 
affected data sources. As a result, our figures may not be comparable with 
the data published under the same or similar designations by other com-
panies.
Due to rounding, the figures presented throughout this report may not add 
up precisely to the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely 
reflect the absolute figures.
Environmental reporting and collection of 
environmental data
Siemens Energy uses an environmental information system to collect and 
analyze reports from all relevant sites in all relevant countries. Reporting 
criteria have been defined based on the size of a location. Our major sites 
and offices report the full scope of parameters such as energy use, 
resource consumption, and emissions. Minor sites report only selected 
parameters that are applicable to the location. We report environmental 
data for continuing operations. The data has been extrapolated to 100% to 
ensure completeness and global coverage. We monitor our environmental 
impact for all office and production sites of environmental relevance, 
using environmental data that is gathered monthly. 
Independent assurance review 
We prepared our Sustainability Report in accordance with high quality 
standards. Consequently, we commissioned an independent auditor to 
conduct a limited assurance engagement of this report for the reporting 
period. You can find the assurance statement of Ernst & Young GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on  page 102 .Sustainability and climate action play a key role in our decision-making 
processes. We are committed to making an important contribution to the 
global economy’s decarbonization and supporting our customers in transi-
tioning to a more sustainable world. Our aspiration is to reach net zero 
across the entire value chain in line with a 1.5°C pathway. Siemens Energy 
has already implemented GHG emissions reduction initiatives along the 
entire value chain: in the supply chain, in our own operations, and through 
the goods and services we provide to our customers.
To create transparency on our climate actions, we disclose how we address 
risks and opportunities arising from climate change. Our disclosure is con-
sistent with the recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please also see our  TCFD Index in the 
Siemens Energy Annual Report 2023, TCFD Index .
Climate change governance
Board oversight
At the start of fiscal year 2023, the highest governing body at Siemens 
Energy, the Supervisory Board, established a Sustainability and Finance 
Committee (formerly Innovation and Finance Committee), chaired by Joe 
Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG. Respon-
sibilities of the committee include addressing sustainability issues, prepar -
ing resolutions of the Supervisory Board on the company’s financial situa-
tion and resources, especially on the annual budget, investments, and 
financial measures, resolving certain transactions and measures for which 
the Executive Board requires approval, and regularly addressing the com-pany’s naming, branding, and design concept. In August 2023, the Super -
visory Board completed training on sustainability topics.Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Governance
Metrics and TargetsStrategy
Risk ManagementMapping of recommendations for  
climate-related financial disclosures
Disclose the organization’s 
governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities.
Disclose how the organization 
identifies, assesses, and 
manages climate-related risks.Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning 
where such information is 
material.
Disclose the metrics and targets 
used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks 
and opportunities where such 
information is material.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 90The Executive Board of Siemens Energy is responsible for the company’s 
strategy and targets, including its aspiration to reach net zero across the 
entire value chain, in line with a 1.5°C pathway, as well as its GHG emis-
sions reduction targets along the entire value chain: in the supply chain, in 
our own operations, and through the goods and services we provide to our 
customers.
Each quarter, the Executive Board is informed of climate-related risks and 
opportunities and aligns the reporting of all significant risks and opportu-
nities throughout the company, including those related to climate issues.
Climate action is also a regular topic on the agenda of Executive Board 
meetings, since sustainability is a cornerstone of our business strategy. 
Topics covered include adapting our business model to offer sustainable 
solutions to our customers as well as the progress towards achieving our 
SBTi commitments.
The Executive Board defines the Group-wide risk policy with the aim of 
managing risks and opportunities appropriately. This includes taking miti-
gation measures to reduce the potential impact of risks on the company to 
an appropriate level. The Executive Board is regularly updated and 
informed of the overall internal control and risk management system, 
audit results, and significant risks and opportunities.
Siemens Gamesa has established a Board of Directors that sets the strate-
gic direction and ambition for sustainability in line with the corporate 
strategy, approves the sustainability targets, and monitors their achieve-
ment. Siemens Gamesa is also subject to our Group-wide principles for the 
accounting-related internal control and risk management system, and 
bears responsibility for complying with these principles itself. The manage-
ment of Siemens Gamesa provides periodic sign-offs to the Executive 
Board of Siemens Energy AG, certifying the effectiveness of the respective 
accounting-related internal control systems, as well as the completeness, 
accuracy, and reliability of the financial data reported.All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), 
who is also the CEO of our company. This includes Siemens Energy’s sus-
tainability program, which is fully integrated into the company’s strategy.
Management’s role
To reflect the importance of sustainability and climate action, we have 
established the Siemens Energy Sustainability Council. It holds quarterly 
and ad hoc meetings and consists of decision-makers representing Busi-
ness Areas, Regional Hubs, and Functions.
The Sustainability Council strategically oversees the Sustainability Pro-
gram’s realization by making key decisions to progress the program and 
the implementation of sustainability, setting priorities and focal points 
where needed, and acting as sustainability ambassadors both inside and 
outside of Siemens Energy. Our CEO chairs the council in his role as CSO. 
He receives regular updates on the status quo of the Sustainability Pro-
gram and the integration of sustainability within the company’s strategic 
and business decision-making.
The Vice President of Sustainability manages the Sustainability Function, 
which is part of the Strategy Function, and is responsible for driving and 
supporting the integration of sustainability within our strategic and busi-
ness decision-making, embedding sustainability in business processes 
through incentives and initiatives, governing the Sustainability Program 
and its implementation in the business, and co-ordinating company-wide 
sustainability activities, programs, and measures. The Vice President of 
Sustainability also monitors business-relevant sustainability trends, identi-
fies potential sustainability-related risks and business opportunities, and 
strategically assesses the impact on the company as well as the company’s 
influence on the external environment.
The Executive Board has established a risk management and internal con-
trol organization, led by the Head of Risk Management and Internal Con-
trol, to oversee the risk management process and further drive the integra-tion and harmonization of existing control activities and align them with 
legal and operational requirements. To allow a meaningful discussion at 
Group level, this organization aggregates individual risks and opportunities 
with a similar cause and effect into broader risk and opportunity topics.
The Head of Risk Management and Internal Control reports quarterly to the 
Executive Board on matters relating to the implementation, operation, and 
oversight of the risk and internal control system and assists the Executive 
Board in reporting to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Our risk management process aims to identify relevant business risks 
throughout the organization as potential deviations from our corporate 
objectives. The management of each of our defined organizational report-
ing units is responsible for providing all relevant risks for the respective 
unit.
Organization of our sustainability governance
Sustainability Council
Sustainability Function, other Functions,  
Division and Hub sustainability business partnersSiemens Energy Executive Board
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)Siemens Energy Supervisory Board
Sustainability and Finance CommitteeThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 91Strategic approach
The impacts of climate change might have significant effects on our com-
pany throughout the entire value chain, including effects on markets, 
technologies, policy and legal matters, or reputation, as well as climate-re-
lated physical impacts on our sites, portfolio, or supply chains (e.g., from 
increasing extreme weather events). These changes will take place gradu-
ally over several years or decades. In particular, the trend toward decar -
bonization of the energy market has a significant impact on the strategy, 
organizational setup, and portfolio of Siemens Energy.
The markets in which we operate are experiencing rapid and significant 
changes due to the introduction of innovative and disruptive technologies 
to meet the accelerating demand for sustainable energy. Driven by global 
sustainability efforts, many market scenario outlooks have the following in 
common: electricity will grow faster than GDP, generation capacity will 
grow, grid investment will rise significantly, and energy efficiency will be a 
competitive criterion in industry.
In response to these market observations, we have based our strategy on 
the following pillars: 
1. Low- or zero-emission power generation
2. Transport and storage of electricity
3. Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes
We are driving our existing portfolio more toward sustainability (e.g., Blue 
Portfolio without SF6 gases in Transmission), and in parallel, we have set 
up five fields of action to drive innovation within the strategic pillars to 
form the basis of our transformation. The fields of action cover technology 
development in the short term (e.g., industrial heat pumps, battery energy storage), mid term (e.g., industrial electric heaters, industrial waste heat 
recovery) and long term (e.g., direct air capture, rotating olefins cracker). 
We expect the addressable market of the fields of action to continue to 
grow by ~20% CAGR until 2030. Consequently, we are increasing our R&D 
and expect our revenue potential to reach into the billion range in the 
same time frame.
We have developed a Climate Neutral Program (CNP) with the target of cli-
mate neutrality by 2030 (in our own operations). Through the CNP, we 
have developed reduction pathways for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, including 
specific Business Area targets. The strongest levers identified are:
1. Reducing energy consumption 
2. Using renewable electricity
3. Reducing SF6 emissions
4. New mobility concepts
CO2 pricing is a further steering mechanism for achieving climate neutral-
ity, and we believe binding CO2 price signals can guide us toward the 1.5°C 
target. These price signals encourage the use of the best technologies and 
business models available. Internally, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) implemented a policy in fiscal year 2022 to consider GHG emis-
sions in our CapEx decisions and ensure that new investments support our 
Climate Neutral Program. To support low-carbon investment in our own 
operations, we introduced a shadow price in fiscal year 2022 of €100 per 
metric ton of CO2 (see chapter  Decarbonization ).
Physical climate risks
The assessment of physical climate risks in our operations is managed by 
the EHS department in cooperation with external expert consultants. In 
fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy conducted physical climate change risks assessments for all of its major manufacturing locations around the world 
to assess the consequences of climate change using up-to-date climate 
models from Jupiter Intelligence’s Climate Score Global v2.6 (sourced April 
2022). These assessments considered aspects such hazard peril, hazard 
level, return period, criticality, and vulnerability.
All perils were reviewed, including changes in weather patterns (causing 
fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards, flooding, and extreme 
temperatures), the frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events, 
and other environmental manifestations of climate change such as sea-
level rise.
• Fluvial/coastal: flood depth 100-year return period
• Wind: daily maximum one-minute sustained gust
• Heat: days exceeding 35°C
• Drought: total water stress
• Hail: days on which large hail is possible
• Wildfire: annual fires per square kilometer
• Precipitation: 24-hour precipitation relative to change in % since 1995 
baseline
• Thunderstorm: days on which severe thunderstorms are probable
• Cold: absolute cold waves
These risks could impact Siemens Energy’s business through physical dam-
age to sites, equipment, or stock, as well as disruptions to operations, 
including internal and external supply networks and employee safety, 
among other impacts. Such impacts could result in the evacuation of per -
sonnel, the curtailment of services or suspension of operations, inability to 
deliver materials to job sites in line with contract schedules, loss of or dam-
age to equipment and facilities, supply chain disruptions, and reduced pro-
ductivity.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 92With these assessments, the company is able to identify the physical  
climate change risks to which the locations are likely to be exposed in  
the future, such as climate perils (floods, extreme heat, droughts), so that 
it can identify and implement mitigation measures, e.g., invest in resil-
ience measures, in an attempt to further reduce and manage its risk  
exposure.
Using the latest climate assessments, we reviewed both short-term (2030) 
and mid-term (2060) time horizons: each with Shared Socioeconomic 
Pathways, as defined by the IPCC, of SSP1-2.6 (Sustainable – 1.8ºC warm-
ing by 2081–2100) and SSP2-4.5 (Middle of the Road – 2.7ºC warming by 
2081–2100) global warming climate scenarios. The two scenarios reviewed 
showed that, from a global perspective, only heat and precipitation are 
likely to reach high and very high hazard levels.Siemens Energy sites have been ranked based on the predicted risk expo-
sure, with action plans being put in place where needed. Actions include 
infrastructure retrofitting, increasing firefighting capabilities, removing 
uncovered stock, installing water reservoirs, and taking flood prevention 
measures.
In addition, our insurance department provides a natural hazard risk analy -
sis for each new building project, driving the selection process for new site 
areas. The data and information collected allow us to identify geographical 
areas of particular interest to us.
To cover the risk exposure in the supply chain, we have introduced a risk 
analysis procedure to systematically identify potential risks in the supply 
chain. Please refer to the chapter  Sustainable supply chain management .Shared Socioeconomic Pathways
Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) are based on the Repre-
sentative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios, a greenhouse 
gas concentration trajectory adopted by the IPCC. The SSPs are 
the most recent scenarios that combine the RCPs with other 
social, economic, and technological factors (such as the energy 
mix used). These are included in the Sixth Assessment Report by 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR6).
0% 100% 0% 100%Wind
Wildfire
Thunderstorm
Precipitation
Heat
Hail
Flood
Drought
ColdSSP 1-2.6 Scenario
2030
0% 100%Wind
Wildfire
Thunderstorm
Precipitation
Heat
Hail
Flood
Drought
ColdSSP 2-4.5 Scenario
2030 2060
0% 100%2060 Change ChangePhysical climate risk assessment results for major manufacturing sites
Hazard levels: 
 Low
 Medium
 High
 Very highThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 93Due diligence
To raise awareness of ESG risks in our projects, we have introduced an ESG 
check early in the sales process to ensure risks are managed appropriately. 
We epitomize responsible business conduct and make sure to implement 
auditable levels of Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria. A sustainability 
expert works alongside the sales project manager, EQS, and regional 
experts to ensure the risks are evaluated and any necessary mitigating 
actions are put in place in a timely manner.
The due diligence process also covers human rights issues.
Climate-related financing strategy
While macroeconomic uncertainties remain, we expect our addressable 
market to grow by 6% per year from €154 billion in 2022 to €213 billion in 
2028. Due to investment programs in the U.S., in particular the Inflation 
Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well as the EU’s Net 
Zero Industrial Act and REPowerEU energy security strategy, we expect the 
North American and European markets to make up >50% of our address-
able market by 2028. See chapter  Decarbonization  for further details.
Investors are continuing to show interest in credible ESG strategies and are 
therefore looking for investment opportunities that align with ESG criteria. 
Siemens Energy successfully placed its first green bond in 2023 with a 
nominal value of €1.5 billion. The green bond has two tranches: a €750 
million tranche with a maturity of three years and a €750 million tranche 
with a maturity of six years.
Furthermore, Siemens Energy is considering emissions targets in financing 
instruments, e.g., a revolving credit facility. Among the criteria to deter -
mine the interest rate is our emissions reduction target.Scenario analysis
Scenario analysis allows analysts to develop an understanding of how vari-
ous combinations of climate-related risks – both transitional and physical 
risks – may affect businesses, strategies, and financial performance over 
time. At Siemens Energy, climate scenarios have various facets and are 
used for different purposes to support our business and prepare us for 
requests from customers looking to achieve the Paris Agreement goals of 
limiting global warming and avoiding climate change impacts.
1. Corporate strategy
While we mainly use S&P Connect Inflections for our global strategic 
assumptions, other tools include IEA STEPS and Net Zero by 2050 (NZE 
2050) as well as IRENA. They are applied in all businesses – for example, to 
deduce assumptions about fossil energy additions, investments, policies, 
and regulations. The time span until 2040/2050 reflects long cycles of 
energy investments. The results are used to inform management about 
potential opportunities and threats if the scenario “compliance with cli-
mate goals” materializes. They are also helpful for corporate strategy 
development, the planning process, the sales targets of our regional man-
agers, and as a basis for our annual management decisions. Scenarios 
highlight the need to counterbalance fluctuating renewables and ensure 
the stability of the electricity grid.
2. Business strategy
For our business strategies, we use climate scenarios to be able to com-
pare, challenge, or complement our strategic mid- to long-term sustain-
ability-related planning processes. They also help us identify new business 
opportunities, such as investments in hydrogen and energy storage. Here, 
we use S&P Connect Inflections, as well as IEA STEPS, with the following 
rationale: S&P Connect Inflections, for example, is used for our Gas Ser -vices business with customized data for market planning. Our regional 
strategy is based on individual NDCs. Data provided includes power gener -
ation, installed capacity, retirements, and gross capacity additions by tech-
nology and fuel type, along with further macroeconomic indicators. IEA 
STEPS is used to incorporate a multitude of societal (e.g., push for decar -
bonization) and economic indicators (e.g., GDP, inflation, population 
growth) and power generation-specific predictions. Based on this market 
model, strategic business decisions (e.g., footprint, portfolio adaptations, 
marketing strategies) are made, for example, to predict the evolvement of 
the power generation market in the next 5–10 years. We also use external 
scenarios, especially for installed capacity/power consumption/invest-
ments (CapEx/OpEx). We compare how the markets react to extreme 
parameters and adjust our strategic outlook monitoring and/or our 
deduced strategic rationales accordingly. Recently, S&P Connect Inflec-
tions and IEA STEPS scenarios were considered, looking at indicators such 
as uptake of renewables, need for new high-voltage transmission lines, or 
demand for electrolyzers. The results confirmed our strategy.
3. Decarbonization strategy
We are committed to monitoring progress on climate action and reducing 
our exposure to climate-related risks. We have therefore incorporated cli-
mate considerations in our market evaluation and strategy process. This 
included the use of three market scenarios (S&P Connect Inflections, Green 
Rules, Discord) with the resulting climate outcomes for our market evalua-
tion process for the first time in fiscal year 2023. In addition, as another first 
during this fiscal year, we developed a detailed annual forecast of our CO2e 
emission footprint of products sold per Business Area until 2030 building on 
our business planning. Emission reduction levers were evaluated and 
decided upon. The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 94Management approach to climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Enterprise risk management (ERM)
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities are analyzed as part of our 
specific ERM process as well as other operational processes, e.g., environ-
ment, health, and safety (EHS). The ERM methodology, including its 
reporting functionality, is designed to provide a comprehensive overview 
of business risks and opportunities across Business Areas and Functions, 
e.g., corporate sustainability, EHS, supply chain, and financing activities. 
This provides a unique perspective, allowing any deviations from the com-
pany’s objectives to be detected across the entire organization.
Our risks and opportunities are categorized in a five-dimensional plan, 
capturing the most significant challenges to our business. They are catego-
rized as “Climate,” “Strategic,” “Operations,” “Financial,” and “Compliance,” 
with each category covering a broad spectrum of underlying associated 
topics.
Risks and opportunities are prioritized in the dimensions of impact and 
likelihood, considering both quantitative (financial, defined as potential 
loss of pre-tax profit) and qualitative impact perspectives (non-financial, 
defined as either business objectives, media/reputation, regulatory bodies’ 
activities, or management time/attention). In this context, impact describes 
the potential adverse effect on our objectives while likelihood refers to the 
probability of occurrence.The impact and likelihood of climate-related opportunities and risks are 
assessed on a short-term (up to 3 years)¹, mid-term (3–5 years)², and long-
term (5–30 years)³ basis, giving us an understanding of climate-risk devel-
opment over multiple time horizons. Multiple time horizons are particu-
larly critical in building business resilience, understanding vulnerabilities 
(i.e., the susceptibility of a company in terms of its adaptive and coping 
capacity regarding a specific risk) and velocity (speed of a specific risk 
impacting the organization upon occurrence). This is especially relevant 
for transitional and physical climate-related risks.
Both impact and likelihood are measured on a scale ranging from 1 to 9, 
with the most critical scoring highest, and are used to calculate an overall 
exposure score for each risk and opportunity. The exposure score is used to 
rank the risks and opportunities, with the most critical again scoring high-
est, and categorize them as “low,” “medium,” “high,” or “major.”
Impact represents a financial magnitude ranging from “marginal” (up to 
€10 million) to “major” (exceeding €125 million). Likelihood ranges from 
“unlikely” (below 20%) to “certain” (above 80%).
Each risk and opportunity in the context of ERM (irrespective of the expo-
sure level) must have a response plan to either mitigate the risk or pursue 
the opportunity. All response plans are agreed upon by the management 
level concerned and are founded on the general response strategy of 
“Avoid,” “Reduce,” “Transfer,” “Watch,” and “Retain” (for risks) or “Pursue” 
(for opportunities).Climate-related risk and opportunity management and review
The Vice President of Sustainability hosts quarterly risk and opportunity 
reviews for the climate-related risks captured using the ERM reporting 
functionality, thus tracking changes in regulations, market shifts, and 
updates from across the business. High-level risk and opportunity owners 
are expected to join the review. This ensures a robust management review 
process and allows us to identify new risks and opportunities as well as any 
potential changes to existing ones.
An annual external audit is performed on the ERM system, including cli-
mate-related risks and opportunities, to ensure industry and regulatory 
standards are upheld.
Risk and opportunity reporting
All responsible risk or opportunity owners are required to update their 
reported description, evaluation, and key mitigation measures instantly if 
significant changes occur. On a quarterly basis, following the quarterly 
closing procedures and communicated reporting deadlines, a summarized 
risk and opportunity register is reported to, reviewed by, and released by 
the Executive Board.
Each defined organizational reporting unit reports its updated risk register 
to the next higher organizational level for further evaluation and analysis. 
Therefore, risks and opportunities with a similar cause and effect are 
aggregated bottom-up into broader risk and opportunity topics. The result-
ing aggregated topics form the basis for the evaluation of the compa-
¹  Siemens Energy defines a time horizon of up to 3 years as short-term, since for short-term analysis, the market can be derived from a bottom-up analysis of the pipeline of projects in development (while for longer-term views, we have 
to rely on a top-down approach).
²  Siemens Energy defines a time horizon above 3 and up to 5 years as medium-term. Market developments for this horizon are typically derived from outlook scenarios as provided by third parties (e.g., S&P Connect, IEA, Bloomberg). 
Even if the market development may not end up being the most likely scenario, this gives us a rather conservative view that enforces reasonable planning robust enough to withstand potential deviations from the scenario assumed.
³  For the long-term horizon, we are preparing holistic long-term energy concepts for countries by using various scenarios such as S&P Connect Inflections, S&P Connect Multitech Mitigation Case, IEA STEPS, IEA APS, or IEA Net Zero by 
2050. The aim is to better assess the consequences and robustness of the current and alternative energy plans we may be proposing. This helps us identify the most reasonable plan of action while maintaining adequate robustness if 
real-world developments differ from the assumptions made. Beyond this horizon, any predictions are subject to high uncertainty and are unlikely to have much impact on today’s business. Nevertheless, we are using state-of-the-art 
climate models (SSPs by IPCC on the basis of the AR6) to account for any potential risks beyond this horizon.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 95Climate-related opportunities 
Opportunity driver Identified potential impact Opportunity realization measures
Products and services
We see the opportunity to significantly 
accelerate Siemens Energy’s growth by 
developing a green product portfolio that 
meets the market trend toward net zero 
emissions.
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term High
Long-term Major•  We strengthen our decarbonization portfolio and grow markets while we continuously adapt our business 
models and our product, service, and solutions portfolio to the changing customer and market behavior.
•  New products/projects comprise, e.g., H2 production, SF6-free high-voltage equipment, decarbonized heat, 
H2-fired gas turbines, or energy storage for our clients in existing power plants – as standalone solutions for 
grids and in combination with renewable energies like PV or wind.
•  It is expected that many countries will increase their (financial and regulatory) support for climate-friendly 
technologies and solutions to reach climate neutrality.•  Continuous monitoring and adaption of our portfolio based on customer and market needs. Supported by 
close observation of the market and regulatory developments.
•  Constant screening of the technology landscape to identify (early-stage) technologies that might be crucial 
in the mid and long term to sustain and accelerate Siemens Energy’s future business.
•  Investment in targeted R&D activities that support our three strategic pillars and the five fields of action.
•  The four global Innovation Centers will play a major role in realizing the energy transition in the regions 
together with our customers and our partnering ecosystem (industrial partners, academia, research insti-
tutes, start-ups).
•  Through the Innovation Centers, governmental programs like the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the U.S. or 
RepowerEU in the EU are being addressed within the fields of action to maximize external funding for 
ongoing and new developments.
Markets
The opportunity that SE may increase operat-
ing earnings and/or profitability due to 
favorable market developments, such as 
positive macro-economic developments, 
faster market shift toward decarbonization, or 
additional public support for energy-related 
infrastructure.
Exposure score: Major•  Policies currently proposed by the European Commission, including the Net Zero Industry Act and a propos-
al to reform the European electricity market, may lead to increased demand for our offers. Existing govern-
mental programs and policies may also create more market demand than we currently expect.
•  The increasing need for energy security and autonomy presents further opportunities for SE to expand 
operating earnings and profitability. This could include investing in energy infrastructure in countries that 
are seeking to reduce their dependence on imported energy sources.
•  Market shifts toward renewable energy are expected to have a positive impact on various aspects of our 
business, including wind power with incentives and government-funded investments becoming available 
across the globe (i.e., IRA bill).•  SE market opportunities are monitored through the SE market evaluation process along with regular 
competitor analyses. SE market evaluation considers alternative market scenarios, including accelerated 
decarbonization, portfolio management, and R&D planning processes.
•  Opportunity-based capital allocation is enabled through the consideration of accelerated decarbonization 
market scenarios.ny-wide risk and opportunity situation and allow for a meaningful discus-
sion of risks and opportunities at Siemens Energy Group level. Climate 
change is integrated into this process in that it influences risks and oppor -
tunities across the different organizational units.
The ERM reporting process is mandatory, company-wide, and includes all 
risks and opportunities, i.e., both climate-related and non-climate-related 
risks and opportunities.Climate-related risks and opportunities
If we fail to adapt our business model and our product portfolio to specific 
regional demand, or are too slow in doing so, this may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of opera-
tions. We are constantly screening climate-related developments – e.g., 
decarbonization programs of our customers, investor requirements, or reg-
ulatory frameworks – and identifying critical projects through a sustain-
ability check to determine risk exposure. Relevant findings are shared with 
the Sustainability Council.We have identified the Gas Services and Transformation of Industry Busi-
ness Areas as the most affected by climate-related risks and decarboniza-
tion trends. They are therefore being continuously monitored through our 
risk management process.
Based on the common TCFD risk categorization, the table below describes 
both the risks and opportunities arising from climate change for our busi-
ness.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 96Climate-related risks 
Risk driver Identified potential impact Risk mitigation measures
Transitional – Technology
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term Major
Long-term Major•  Climate change triggers significant changes in our markets and customer requirements (e.g., decarbonized 
energy systems). Our operating results depend on our ability to adapt to those changes and to optimize our 
cost base accordingly. 
•  Even if we succeed in developing innovative technologies, our competitors may be able to commercialize 
similar technologies faster or more successfully than us.•  Analysis of our Group portfolio, identifying three areas of focus – core, growth, and transformation – to 
address and enhance identified technology needs in the R&D planning process and beyond.
•  R&D roadmap and consistent decision-making for R&D reallocation reflecting strategic (transformational) 
focus of the company. 
•  The five fields of action are the main tool to drive transformative technology developments at SE (Siemens 
Energy). Their most essential task is to shape SE’s (green) technology portfolio of the future (e.g., pow -
er-to-X, heat pump) to suit future energy market demands and satisfy future customer needs (e.g., H2 
production, energy storage, resilient grids, decarbonized heat, H2-fired gas turbines). 
•  Four Innovation Centers have been established across four regions to bring SE’s innovation activities closer 
to the customer and leverage regional partner ecosystems, ensuring an efficient and focused portfolio 
development.
Transitional – Market
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term High
Long-term Major•  There is a risk that, due to the sustainability trend in the energy markets (e.g., the shift from fossil fuels 
toward renewables, intensified competitive behavior, low demand for hydrocarbons), unexpected geopoliti-
cal developments, or changes in customer preference, we may face reduced demand for certain parts of 
our products and services (e.g., fossil-based portfolio, countries depending on high oil prices may reduce 
their investment in energy infrastructure and/or default on payments).
•  Due to the rapid rise of the trend, we may not be able to adapt our business model and product portfolio to 
such disruptive developments.•  Monitoring of market risks through the Siemens Energy common market evaluation process along with 
regular competitor analyses. Individual response aspects are addressed for all SE units (Divisions, Corporate 
Functions, Siemens Gamesa).
•  Constant screening of climate-related developments in the decarbonization programs of customers and 
investors to derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for further 
action in the respective area of responsibility.
•  To raise awareness of ESG risks in our projects, we have implemented an ESG check early in the process so 
that any necessary mitigation actions can be identified and implemented in a timely manner.
Transitional – Policy and legal
Exposure score:
Short-term Medium
Mid-term Medium
Long-term Medium•  The markets of our Gas and Power business are affected by changes in national energy regulations, such as 
support of renewable energy, carbon pricing, and climate change targets, as well as the modernization of 
energy and electricity markets. These will provide an incentive to adapt current products and develop 
sustainable solutions leveraged by supporting regulations. 
•  Risks arising from non-compliance with the Code of Conduct or with legal, contractual, or (emerging) 
regulatory requirements might affect Siemens Energy, e.g., through legal requirements on emissions.
•  CO2 taxes, financing restrictions for GHG-emitting technologies, or declining subsidy levels might affect the 
financial sustainability of some of our business segments.
•  The EU Taxonomy requires Siemens Energy to publicly disclose sustainability-related financial figures, 
potentially affecting future investment decisions by external investors.
•  As a result of the conflict in Ukraine, we face the risk that the energy transition in Europe might be delayed 
in the short term because of policymakers’ focus on securing the energy supply in Europe. This might, for 
example, affect plans to accelerate the expansion and integration of renewables into the energy system.•  Monitoring current and emerging regulations in our major markets.
•  Raising awareness of these new regulations to assess potential impacts and develop sustainable solutions.
•  Informing affected businesses as early as possible to create room for timely portfolio adaptations (products 
and services).
•  Where applicable, informing on emerging regulations either directly through contacts with the relevant reg-
ulatory bodies, via associations, or together with similarly affected companies to avoid or lessen the 
foreseen impact.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 97Risk driver Identified potential impact Risk mitigation measures
Transitional – Reputation
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term Major
Long-term High•  Reputational changes impact the decisions of our stakeholders, i.e., reputational damage might result in 
adverse effects on our business (e.g., loss of tenders, discontinuation, or adaptation of some of our prod-
ucts at an earlier time than expected) and financial conditions (e.g., unattractive investment opportunity 
for investors, divestments of ESG-oriented investors).
•  Increasing public pressure (e.g., media campaigns, boycotts) may accelerate the shift from fossil-based 
energy generation toward renewables.
•  If the strategic implementation deviates from what has been communicated, this may result in a lack of 
credibility for external stakeholders and partners.•  Implementing a climate action program, including targets, to create transparency on decarbonization levers 
and aim to decarbonize our portfolio.
•  Regularly performing a double materiality analysis to understand changing stakeholder expectations.
•  Constantly screening climate-related developments in the strategic programs of our customers and inves-
tors to derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for further action in 
the respective area of responsibility.
•  ESG risks in projects are addressed at different stages of the process from early bid management through to 
project execution involving various expert teams across the company. We work closely with Project/Custom-
er Finance & Sales to discuss the identification and implementation of mitigation actions.
•  Creating transparency on ESG performance for stakeholders, e.g., through the Sustainability Report, and 
contributing to relevant ESG ratings and standards.
Physical risk – Acute
Increased severity of extreme weather events
Exposure score:
Short-term Medium
Mid-term Medium•  Severe weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards, and extreme temperatures may 
lead to an evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services or suspension of operations, inability to deliver 
materials to job sites in line with contract schedules, loss of or damage to equipment and facilities, supply 
chain disruptions, or reduced productivity. Readiness for these emergencies will lead to increased resilience.
•  We may face the risk of failing to identify all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, etc.) due to changes 
in climate conditions that result in damage to property, an impact on business continuity, or the need for 
investment in preventive measures.•  Continuously evaluating and monitoring changes in physical climate parameters based on global studies, 
weather statistics, and trends based on the international experience of insurance companies.
•  Performing local risk assessments based on our EHS emergency management and developing protection 
concepts where necessary.
•  Our insurance department provides a natural hazard risk analysis for each new building project that sup-
ports the selection process for the respective site areas. The data and information collected allow us to 
identify geographical areas where we need to pay special attention to risks from changes to physical 
climate parameters.
•  Constant improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System and the supply chain re-
sponse.
Physical risk – Chronic
Longer-term shifts in climate pattern
Exposure score:
Long-term High•  Long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., longer and warmer seasons, extreme cold, drought) may affect 
our and our customers’ operations and could result in the development of new markets and business 
models. This would require changes to our product portfolio and project execution.
•  We may face the risk of failing to identify all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, etc.) due to changes 
in climate conditions that result in damage to property, an impact on business continuity, or the need for 
investment in preventive measures.•  Creating transparency on environmental stressors and impacts to evaluate, e.g., water stress on locations.
•  We are analyzing the potential impacts on our locations at a global level using different pathways and 
taking into consideration the total insured values.
•  Based on this baselining, we are implementing preventive measures, supported by the integrated manage-
ment systems and insurance risk reports.
•  Consistent improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 98Metrics and targets
The impacts of climate change, coupled with rising global demand for 
energy, pose an enormous challenge to all stakeholders if we want to meet 
the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C and 
pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. Siemens Energy 
aims to do its share to decarbonize the energy sector and aspires to reach 
net zero emissions across the value chain in line with a 1.5°C pathway. 
Therefore, we evaluate Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions every year, have set 
ourselves both short- and mid-term targets for all scopes, and measure 
performance against those targets. 
The greatest potential to reduce GHG emissions is in our products, solu-
tions, and services, since they make up more than 99% of our overall foot-
print (Scope 3: use of sold products). We are committed to a 28% reduction 
by 2030 from a 2019 baseline¹. The SBTi confirms that our target for the 
use of our sold products is in line with the Paris Agreement goal of limiting 
global warming to well below 2°C. For the evaluation of emissions from 
the use of sold products, we follow the GHG Protocol. 
Siemens Energy (without Siemens Gamesa) aims to be climate neutral in 
its own operations by 2030 and to compensate for remaining emissions 
from then on. This includes the reduction of absolute Scope 1 and 2 emis-
sions by at least 46% by 2025 from base year 2019. This is an even greater 
ambition than our initial target year, which was originally 2030, as vali-
dated by the SBTi. The strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality by 
2030 lie in reducing energy consumption, using renewable electricity, 
reducing SF6 emissions, and introducing new mobility concepts. In fiscal 
year 2023, we achieved our target to have 100% of Siemens Energy’s global 
electricity consumption from renewable sources.
The SBTi also verified that Siemens Gamesa’s emissions reduction targets 
(Scope 1 and 2) align with the 1.5°C Paris Agreement goal. The verification 
refers to the target to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 70% per 
Our climate roadmap
Targets
Lever100% renewable  
electricity (SBTi¹)-46% absolute  
reduction (SBTi 
validated for 2030¹)beyond 2023 2025 2030
Climate neutrality-30% per € spent Aspiration 
to reach net 
zero along the 
value chain
 Supply chain  Own operations  Portfolio• Coal exit • Energy efficiency & digitalization, e.g., waste heat recovery, combined heat and power
• Increasing renewables & electrification, e.g., transmission, storage, e-drives
• Fuel shift & GHG-free products, e.g., green fuels, blue portfolio
•  Emission removal technologies, e.g., carbon capture and storage 
(CCS, BECCS, DAC)
• Reducing energy consumption
• Using renewable electricity (100% by 2023)• Reducing SF6 emissions (60% by 2030)
• New mobility concepts (e.g., 100% CO2-neutral benefit cars by 2030)
• Conducting decarbonization due diligence assessments covering 75% of the CO2e emissions of the supply chain
• Implementing mitigation measures with suppliers-28% absolute  
reduction (SBTi¹)
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 99MW installed by 2025 from a 2017 base year. Siemens Gamesa commits to 
ensuring that 30% of its suppliers by spend covering purchased goods and 
services, as well as transportation and distribution, will have science-based 
targets by 2025. It also commits to increasing its annual sourcing of renew -
able electricity from 58% in 2017 to 100% by 2025. Our suppliers are an 
important part of the value chain, and we encourage them to take climate 
protection measures. Emissions reduction is an integral part of our suppli-
ers’ supply chain management (see chapter Sustainable supply chain man-
agement). For Siemens Energy, we have set the target of reducing our rel-
ative Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services, as well 
as transportation and distribution, by 30% per procurement volume unit (€ 
spent) until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018.
For more information on our decarbonization efforts, energy consump-
tion, and related GHG emissions, please refer to the chapter  Decarbon-
ization .
GHG emissions
Our GHG emissions are externally verified by EY (please see  Auditor 
statement  on page 102)
Scope 3 downstream (use of sold products)
Siemens Energy’s total Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products 
during the reporting period was 1.1 billion metric tons of CO2e. Compared 
to fiscal year 2022, this is a decrease of about 12% in total emissions and 
33% in intensity. There are several reasons for the decrease in absolute 
emissions, including:
1.  Emissions reduction by lower sold capacity (MW) in central and distrib-
uted power generation
2.  Adjustment of lifetime to power generation (27 years in fiscal year 2023 
vs. 28 years in fiscal year 2022)
3. Reduction in operating hours for central power generation
Scope 1 & 2
In fiscal year 2023, we managed to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
around 16% or 33.46 metric tons, resulting in a Scope 1 and 2 intensity of 5.83×10-6 t CO2e/€ of revenue in 2023 compared to 7.42×10-6 t CO2e/€ of 
revenue in 2022. The main levers were an increase in green electricity, 
reduced overall energy consumption, and a continued reduction of SF6 
emissions. More than 50% of our emissions occur in Germany, China, and 
the U.S.Scope 3 upstream
The calculated upstream footprint for fiscal year 2023 is 9,230 metric kilo-
tons CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.414, which is 0.5% higher in total 
emissions but 8.3% lower in intensity compared to 2022.
EU Taxonomy
For fiscal year 2022, and in accordance with a simplified approach allowed 
by the EU for first-time application, Siemens Energy reported the shares of 
taxonomy-eligible economic activities in revenues, capital expenditure 
(CapEx), and operating expenditure (OpEx) in relation to the currently 
developed environmental targets “Climate change mitigation” and “Climate 
change adaptation.” In fiscal year 2023, the reporting obligation also 
extends to the taxonomy-aligned shares of revenue, CapEx, and OpEx and 
the recognition of natural gas and nuclear energy activities. For further 
information, please refer to  Siemens Energy Annual Report 2023, EU Tax-
onomy .Scope 3 downstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022²
Total¹ 1,098,370 1,252,319
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of order intake) 0.022 0.033
¹  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). Siemens Gamesa emissions equal zero.
²  Fiscal year 2022 emissions were recalculated to reflect the reduction of the expected lifetime for gas and steam 
turbines in power generation from 30 years to 28 years and an H2 co-firing project in fiscal year 2022.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022
Scope 1 163 188
Scope 2 18 27
Total 182 215
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 5.83×10-67.42×10-6
Scope 3 upstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2023 2022
Total¹ 9,230 9,182
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.414² 0.451
¹  Fiscal year 2022 data was adjusted to include Siemens Gamesa. Due to the partially undefined material codes of 
the purchasing volume at Siemens Gamesa, approximately 10% of the CO2e emissions were extrapolated.
² Reduction compared to the base year 2018 (baseline calculation was partially extrapolated) -18.6%.EU Taxonomy Fiscal year
(%) 2023 2022¹
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 73.4 57
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
activities 
72.2 
79
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible activities 
83.1 
40
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned 
activities 
37.5 
–
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
and -aligned activities 
51.0 
–
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible and -aligned activities 
40.4 
–
¹  Due to the simplified approach in fiscal year 2022, there is no prior year information on taxonomy-aligned 
shares available. A prior year comparison of the total taxonomy-eligible shares is only possible to a limited ex-
tent due to the first-time application of the complementary delegated act on natural gas und nuclear activites.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 100Siemens Energy’s decarbonization activities cover its complete value chain. 
Our methodology follows the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. We evaluate and disclose the most material categories of the 
GHG Protocol, including category 11 – Use of sold products, since this 
accounts for the vast majority of our overall GHG emissions. We seek to 
reduce the CO2e emissions from the use phase of our sold products by 28% 
until 2030. This target has been validated by the Science-Based Targets Ini-
tiative (SBTi).
Definition: Scope 3 – Use of sold products
Scope 3 emissions arise from sources owned or controlled by other entities 
in the value chain (e.g., material suppliers, third-party logistics providers, 
waste management suppliers, travel suppliers, lessees and lessors, franchi-
sees, retailers, employees, and customers). 
Category 11 of the GHG Protocol (Scope 3: Use of sold products) includes 
emissions from the use of goods and services sold by Siemens Energy in 
the reporting year, considering the total expected lifetime emissions.
Relevance of Scope 3 – Use of sold products
In the course of our evaluation to set ourselves a science-based emission 
reduction target, we calculated the complete Siemens Energy CO2e foot-
print based on fiscal year 2019 (Scope 1, 2, 3 up- and downstream). The 
results showed that >95% of our overall CO2e footprint originates from the 
use of our sold products.Sources of CO2e emissions at Siemens Energy
• Products that directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use  
 
–  CO2e emissions are basically generated through the combustion of 
fossil fuels (e.g., natural gas in a gas turbine). The amount of CO2e 
emissions varies depending on the type of fuel (e.g., natural gas, bio-
mass, hydrogen) and the energy efficiency of the product (gas tur -
bine, steam turbine, electric motor, etc.)  
 –  CO2e emissions are basically generated by large electrical consumers 
(e.g., motors, drives, pumps) or from power losses (e.g., transformers) 
of the used products.
• Products that contain or form greenhouse gases that are emitted during 
use: 
 
To a minor extent, the transmission portfolio might be emitting CO2e 
due to SF6 gas leakages during maintenance or operational use at cus-
tomer sites.
Scope and boundaries
Data on CO2e emissions is reported within the limits of the customer use 
phase of a product related to a certain Business Area. Therefore, CO2e 
emissions occurring during other phases of the life cycle of a portfolio unit, 
such as in the supply chain, during production, or upon end-of-life dis-
posal, are not considered as emissions from the use of our sold products.SE methodology
Calculating emissions from category 11 typically requires product design 
specifications and assumptions about how customers use our products 
(e.g., use profiles, assumed product lifetimes).
Typical activity data needed to calculate emissions from products that 
directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use:
• Total lifetime expected 
• Quantity of products sold
• Fuel used per use of product 
• Electricity consumption per use of product
Emission factors needed:
• Life cycle emission factors for fuels
• Life cycle emission factors for electricity
Typical activity data needed to calculate emissions from products that con-
tain or form GHGs that are emitted during use:
• Total quantity of products sold
• Quantity of GHGs contained per product
• Percentage of GHGs released throughout the lifetime of the product 
Emission factors needed:
• Global Warming Potential (GWP) of the GHGs contained in the product, 
expressed in units of carbon dioxide per unit kilogram of the GHGSiemens Energy methodology for calculation of CO2e emissions 
from Scope 3 – use of sold productsThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 101Although the GHG Protocol contains clear guidance, there are still many 
assumptions that must be made when calculating the footprint of a prod-
uct over its lifetime. Our principles are transparency, credibility, and a 
somewhat conservative perspective. For our assumptions, we rely on the 
Business Areas as well as on external, credible sources, such as energy 
market forecasts from reputable providers.
At Siemens Energy, the evaluation of CO2e emissions is based on project 
lists with order entry in the respective reporting year. Internal sources for 
calculation parameters are diverse and include several project or product 
databases, service databases, product brochures, and expert opinions. We 
use external sources for the emission factors (global grid mix, fuel com-
bustion).
Emission factors
Siemens Energy uses life cycle emission factors (including well-to-tank 
emissions) to calculate Scope 3 emissions related to fuels and energy con-
sumed. Compared to combustion emission factors, life cycle emission fac-
tors represent all emissions in the upstream supply chain of fuels and 
energy (incl. extraction, refining, and transportation of the raw fuel 
sources; excl. flaring and venting).
Emission factors for fuel combustion are based on the IPCC Default Emis-
sion Factors for Stationary Combustion in the Energy Industries while the 
global grid mix is based on the IEA World Energy Outlook. Emission factors 
are checked and updated on a yearly basis. 
Further calculation parameters:
• Emissions calculated for a particular year include the lifetime emissions 
of all the products sold in that year. The emissions produced from our 
already installed fleet are not included in that year’s calculation.
• Emission calculations are performed based on assumptions about yearly 
operating hours and an estimated lifetime in years.
• Energy efficiency is based on ISO values or expert estimates.
• Fuel type is based on internal project lists.Service business
Service business is not part of the evaluation of Scope 3 emissions from 
the use of sold products. Even if we achieve higher power plant efficien-
cies through service upgrades that lead to a reduction and thus avoid 
emissions, Siemens Energy does not report the emissions avoided. Siemens 
Energy has decided to follow a different approach based on the overall car -
bon budget, i.e., absolute emissions.
Improving data quality over time
As markets are changing, we need to make sure our calculation parameters 
are conservative but still reflect reality. For example, the share of renew -
ables in the global grid mix is increasing, and the emission factor for elec-
tricity is changing over time. This needs to be reflected in our calculations. 
We also revisited how we consider H2 co-firing, and thus considered the 
planned share of H2 from a co-firing project in fiscal year 2022 in our calcu-
lations. A customer buying an H2-ready gas turbine is not evidence that it 
will actually run on H2. Therefore, we consider H2 co-firing only if the cus-
tomer shares a specific time plan for using H2 and indicates to what extent 
H2 is going to be used.
While gas turbines have historically been powered by fossil fuels through-
out their lifetime, this will obviously change in the future. Many countries, 
including our most relevant customer markets, have committed to a net 
zero economy in 2050 and a net zero electricity system even earlier. This is 
why we decided to include this change in our calculations for the first time 
and assume that the turbines we sell now will not run on unabated fossil 
fuels after 2050.
Base year greenhouse gas (GHG) recalculation policy
Siemens Energy uses fiscal year 2019 as the base year for our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emission calculation for Scope 1, 2, and 3 (category 11: use of 
sold products). In order to accurately track progress toward our science-based targets, we 
will adjust our base year emissions inventory to account for significant 
changes, described below, if the changes drive an increase/decrease in 
emissions of greater than 5% versus the initial baseline, in accordance with 
the GHG Protocol guidance and the SBTi Net Zero Standard. We may also 
choose to recalculate our baseline for changes below 5%, especially when 
structural changes occur.
Structural changes
Structural changes that significantly impact our base year GHG emissions 
and may trigger an adjustment of the baseline include acquisitions, divest-
ments, and mergers. When significant structural changes occur in the mid-
dle of a year, the current and baseline year will be recalculated for the 
entire year. In the event of an acquisition, in order to ensure that full and 
accurate data is available, a recalculation will be carried out within one 
year after the structural change occurred.
Calculation methodology changes
Methodology changes that significantly impact our base year GHG emis-
sions and may trigger an adjustment of the baseline include updated emis-
sion factors, improved data accuracy, and changes in calculation method-
ologies.
Data errors or other changes
We will recalculate our emissions in the event that we discover a signifi-
cant error or a number of cumulative errors that together are significant. A 
significant change in our organizational or operational boundaries may 
likewise result in an adjustment of the baseline.
Baseline adjustments will be made at the end of each fiscal year if we find 
any of the changes described above to have occurred during the reporting 
period that may require us to recalculate our base year. We publicly restate 
our baseline when we report the latest carbon footprint for the previous 
financial year.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 102We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the sections 1 
“The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible opera-
tions” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG, Munich (hereaf-
ter the “Company”), for the reporting period from October 1, 2022 to Sep-
tember 30, 2023 (hereafter the “report”).
Our engagement did not include interviews presented in the report as well 
as any prospective disclosures and links to other web pages. Our engage-
ment exclusively relates to the English PDF-version of the report, which is 
published at  www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-2023 . 
Management’s responsibilities 
The legal representatives of the Company are responsible for the prepara-
tion of the report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Stan-
dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereafter the “GRI criteria”) and for 
the selection of the information to be assessed. 
These responsibilities of the Company’s legal representatives include the 
selection and application of appropriate sustainability reporting methods 
and making assumptions and estimates about individual sustainability dis-
closures of the group that are reasonable in the circumstances. Further -
more, the legal representatives are responsible for such internal control as 
they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a report that 
is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (manipulation of 
the report) or error. Independence and quality assurance of the auditor’s firm
We have complied with the German professional requirements on inde-
pendence as well as other professional conduct requirements.
Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional 
pronouncements – in particular the BS WP/vBP [“Berufssatzung für Wirt-
schaftsprüfer/vereidigte Buchprüfer”: Professional Charter for German Pub-
lic Accountants/German Sworn Auditors] in the exercise of their Profession 
and the IDW Standard on Quality Management issued by the Institute of 
Public Auditors in Germany (IDW): Requirements for Quality Management 
in the Audit Firm (IDW QS 1) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive 
quality management system that includes documented policies and proce-
dures with regard to compliance with professional ethical requirements, 
professional standards as well as relevant statutory and other legal require-
ments.
Responsibilities of the auditor 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance on the 
report based on our assurance engagement. 
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa-
tion” issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 
(IAASB). This standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether any matters have 
come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Company’s report is 
not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria.
In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less 
extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly, a 
substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the 
assurance procedures is subject to the professional judgment of the auditor. 
In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among other things, 
performed the following assurance procedures and other activities:
• Inquiries of employees and inspection of documents concerning the 
sustainability strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability man-
agement including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens Energy AG,
• Inquiries of legal representatives and relevant employees involved in the 
preparation of the report about the preparation process, about the 
internal control system related to this process, and about disclosures in 
the report,
• Inquiries of employees of the Group responsible for data capture and 
consolidation, about the data capture and compilation methods as well 
as internal controls to the extent relevant for the assurance of the dis-
closures in the report,Independent auditor’s report on a limited assurance engagement
TO SIEMENS ENERGY AG, MUNICHThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 103• Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the report,
• Analytical procedures on selected disclosures in the report,
• Inquiries and inspection of documents relating to the collection and 
reporting of selected qualitative disclosures and data,
• Reconciliation of selected disclosures with the corresponding data in the 
consolidated financial statements and combined management report,
• Evaluation of the presentation of the report. 
Assurance conclusion
Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, 
nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sec-
tions 1 “The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible 
operations” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG for the 
period from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023 are not prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria.Restriction of use
We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engagement was con-
ducted for the Company’s purposes and that the assurance report is 
intended solely to inform the Company about the result of the assurance 
engagement. As a result, it may not be suitable for another purpose than 
the aforementioned. Accordingly, the assurance report is not intended to 
be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions based on it. Our 
responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any responsibility 
to third parties. Our assurance conclusion is not modified in this respect. 
General engagement terms and liability
The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprü-
fungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” 
dated January 1, 2017 are applicable to this engagement and also govern 
our relations with third parties in the context of this engagement (www.
de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In addition, please refer to the lia-
bility provisions contained there in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability 
towards third parties. We accept no responsibility, liability or other obliga-
tions towards third parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively 
be precluded. 
We make express reference to the fact that we will not update the assur -
ance report to reflect events or circumstances arising after it was issued, 
unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone tak -
ing note of the summarized result of our work contained in this report to 
decide whether and in what way this information is useful or suitable for 
their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of their 
own review procedures. 
Munich, December 1, 2023
Ernst & Young GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  
Breitsameter Johne  
Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüferin 
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023Page 104Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Contact
sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Picture credits
page 34: Ørsted
page 60: Siemens Gamesa
Concept, editing, and layout in cooperation with:
Accenture GmbH, Kronberg im Taunus, Germany
https://www.accenture.com/de-deImprintThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
 siemens-energy.com
 x.com/Siemens_Energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.