Sustainability certification Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications CertaLink energy certification A fast and easy way to verify the energy origin of low and zero emission products How CertaLink certification can help you As energy transition progresses step-by-step, the global demand for sustainable industrial manufacturing has never been higher. Companies need to demonstrate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or verify the volume of CO 2 emissions in their products. In addition, there is a growing demand to prove the sustainability of green products like sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), synthetic fuels, green steel, and other commodities. With CertaLink Energy Certification, we can track the environmental impact of sustainable production processes along the entire product cycle. Contact us Learn more about the CertaLink pilot project at Nobian’s chlor-alkali electrolysis plant in Germany Haru Oni – discover certified e-fuel from wind and water CertaLink Energy Certification is already proving the green origin of the e-fuels applications in the Porsche motorsport fleet at Haru Oni . Step by step, Haru Oni is transforming the fuel industry, supported by the certification process to validate the green origins of e-fuels. Learn more How does CertaLink Energy Certification work? Developed with innovation partners TÜV SÜD and the German Energy Agency (dena), CertaLink Energy Certification uses blockchain technology to connect physical assets to digital decentralized infrastructure. It tracks the low and zero carbon energy from source to consumption along the value chain, validating the energy's origin plus providing detailed insights and attributes. As a result of automated and tamper-proof recording and tracking of energy-specific data, a CertaLink certificate is valid around the world through the entire low or zero carbon value chain. Learn more about the features and benefits CertaLink fact sheet PDF (4 MB) Download The CertaLink energy certification manger login Are you already a registered customer? If yes, you can access your personal dashboard here. Login If you need assistance, please find your service contact here. Service contact If you are not registered yet, please get in touch. Contact us Our answers to frequently asked questions about CertaLink Energy Certification What is the purpose of a sustainable energy certificate? Sustainability certificates such as CertaLink Energy Certificates enable "Sustainability Claims" in an automated, tamper-proof, and government-approved manner. Sustainably certified products have a higher market value and offer benefits like customs and tax relief for imports and exports These green energy certifications are required by all companies that wish to market their products as sustainable. With a CertaLink certificate, you can trace the zero or low carbon origin of your products throughout the entire value chain. How can I connect to the CertaLink Energy Certification Manager? Whether you are planning your facility, or you have already established a production facility, you can connect to the CertaLink Energy Certification Manager. We will connect the certification manager with your Instrumentation and Control system or smart meters to access your measurement data and generate green energy certificates for your products. Plant shutdowns are usually not necessary. What does CertaLink certification look like? The CertaLink certification process is comparable to classic ISO certifications, but the products are continuously certified per production unit. To receive the corresponding automated issued certificate, companies must adhere to a conventional certification approach. What do I need to do to prepare for CertaLink certification process? We will advise you to choose the optimal certification scheme for your business purposes and prepare the certification together with you. There are document checklists depending on the selected certification scheme. A detailed list of required documents will be provided to you so that you can prepare your sustainability certification in a structured manner. How do you ensure that CertaLink certificates are accepted by the government? In order to apply an internationally accepted renewable energy certification standard, we are partnering with independent certification bodies, e.g. TÜV SÜD and dena, the German Energy Agency. Is there a fee associated with the CertaLink Energy Certification Manager? It is important to distinguish between three types of fees. An onboarding fee is charged during the connection and commissioning of the CertaLink Energy Certification Manager. A yearly membership fee is charged after completed onboarding. Later on, each certificate creation will incur a fee. How do you ensure that I have control over my data and that the data is not misused? The CertaLink Energy Certification Manager is based on Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT). Unlike public chains, where transactions are publicly available to everyone, in CertaLink the data is processed on a private permissioned blockchain. It means that only independent trusted and explicitly contracted node operators are participating in the network with limited access to structured data. All site data is transferred in encoded format and converted into declarations by DLT smart contracts. These declarations can be shared based on commercial operator settings. Our partners: Independent certification bodies “TÜV SÜD has a clear focus on sustainability and decarbonization. We are excited to join forces with Siemens Energy and dena to innovate together on the Clean Energy Certification platform. This new service ensures trust and enables the trace of origin across the Power-to-X value chains.” Reiner Block CEO Division Industry Service TÜV SÜD AG Visit TÜV SÜD website “The CertaLink Energy Certification Manager is the solution to a complex problem. It enables economic participants to concentrate on their main business and to automatically process a significant part of the verification process via the CertaLink Manager. The CertaLink Manager thus represents a new step in the digitalization of the energy transition.” Kristina Haverkamp Managing Director German Energy Agency (dena) Visit dena website Service for your installed CertaLink manager Service hotline For assistence get in touch with our first level support by our partner dena, the Deutsche Energie-Agentur – the German Energy Agency. support@certalink-manager.org +49 30 66777888 Certify your zero or low emission products Whether it's renewable energy, e-fuels, sustainable steel, or another product, we can help you certify it. Get in touch with us to arrange a consultation for your specific needs and discover how we can assist you. Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Read more August 9, 2023 4 min read 100 Days to COP28: How we move from rhetoric to action October 27, 2022 5 min read How hydrogen will give us low-carbon steel August 12, 2022 8 min read How to cut Europe’s ferry emissions in half October 27, 2021 8 min read How cyber-ready is the oil and gas industry? May 12, 2021 8 min read How the chemical industry can improve its climate footprint See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025