Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid Press release October 17, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy will deliver the first-ever hybrid grid stabilization and large-scale battery storage plant at Shannonbridge in Ireland. This is the first time, these two technologies have been combined into one, single grid connection to stabilize the grid and make better use of renewable energy. Green energy for 9500 households The proven synchronous condenser technology uses a generator with a flywheel connected. It’s essentially a big "rotating mass“ and with its stored energy, the synchronous condenser provides power reserve, which instantly compensates for frequency fluctuations and strengthens the stability of the grid. At the same time, a large-scale battery energy storage system can store or release excess renewable energy when it is needed. It provides a solution to maximize use of renewable energy, even when the wind is not blowing and with a capacity of around 160MWh the battery energy storage could supply around 9500 households with power for a full day. “Innovative technical solutions are essential if we are to combat the consequences of climate change and transition to a net-zero grid. Battery storage systems will play an increasingly pivotal role in tomorrow’s global energy infrastructure,” said Tim Holt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy. “By combining our proven experience in grid technology and our ability to innovate, the Shannonbridge hybrid solution will help ramp-up renewables by offering storage and stabilization technology in one connection.” Siemens Energy’s scope includes the synchronous condenser, including the flywheel which will deliver around 4000MWs of inertia onto the system, and the large-scale battery energy storage system with around 160MWh as well as power conversion systems, energy management system and medium voltage equipment. The order will generate around 85m Euros for Siemens Energy and work has already begun on site. A small island with big ambitions Achieving Ireland’s climate targets will require massive investment in energy infrastructure. By combining two innovative energy solutions via one connection, Siemens Energy will deliver a flexible system to help stabilize Ireland’s grid. Ireland aims to reach net-zero by 2050 and to reduce emissions by 51% by the end of the decade, so is significantly increasing use of renewable energy. In addition to carbon emission reduction targets, the country is also experiencing significantly growing electricity demand, in part due to its global digital and data hosting industry. Flexibility on offer The current market mechanism in Ireland allows operators to sell services like inertia, short circuit power and reactive power as provided by the synchronous condenser technology to the transmission system operator. To support this, Siemens Energy will also provide an energy management system allowing the customer to respond to market demands and power needs in real-time. Contact Christina Hümmer Christina.Huemmer@siemens-energy.com +49152 07158923 Follow us Download Press Release Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid October 18, 2023 PDF (91 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 94,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. Read more Read less Read more February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory October 12, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy sells Trench to sharpen portfolio March 28, 2023 Berlin Ramping up renewable energy: Siemens Energy connects Italy's largest islands to the mainland March 16, 2023 Berlin Bringing wind energy to homes – for tomorrow's greener generation See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025