Grid Stability - Rotating Grid Stabilizer Conversion Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Rotating Grid Stabilizer Conversion for grid stability With the rising adoption of renewable energy, traditional power generation methods are utilized less, and generators are being shut down. Once these generators are shut down , their role in providing rotational inertia, short circuit power and voltage control , to help balance the grid system disappears with them also. Grid stability is, therefore, a vital consideration for transmission and distribution network operators, with increasing renewable penetration. We offer Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) Conversion solutions leveraging our engineering expertise and service capabilities. The RGS Conversion comprises complete solutions for converting existing power plant equipment into synchronous condensers, from engineering to installation and commissioning. Contact us What are the benefits of Rotating Grid Stabilizer Conversion (RGS)? With the Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) Conversion solutions, you can convert your existing power plant assets to a synchronous condenser to achieve grid stability. By utilizing power plants that may otherwise become stranded assets, RGS conversions provide necessary system inertia, short circuit power and reactive power to the grid for that balance. Explore our offerings Inherent frequency response, the result of system inertia, is the ability of an electrical machine to absorb and store or inject energy in order to manage frequency. One way to do this is to use technology with a rotating mass, like flywheels and synchronous condensers, to store energy for short-term frequency support. This helps to prevent blackouts, due to a rapid change of frequency and maintains a stable grid, within its frequency limits. You can also generate additional revenue streams by providing additional active power with our hybrid conversion solution. RATCH-Australia is adding a new revenue stream with a Hybrid RGS RATCH-Australia Corporation Townsville Power Station is collaborating with Siemens Energy to convert its existing gas turbine into a Hybrid RGS to provide system strength and inertia services. Learn more How is grid stability maintained? Traditionally, grid stability is achieved through the dependence on the system strength and system inertia. System strength refers to the ability of the electricity grid to recover intact from major disturbances and it is provided by the short-circuit power of the generator or synchronous condenser. The same generator also provides system inertia which is critical to maintaining a steady frequency in the grid . And no matter the source of generated power, electrical grid systems rely on both for grid security, safety, and reliability. Supporting grid stability – free white paper Ensuring grid stability is key to integrating more renewable energy . Download our new white paper to explore how thermal power plants can support grid stability. Free download Convert your generator to a Rotating Grid Stabilizer Our conversion approach is tailored to meet your needs. Building new infrastructure is one option, but the infrastructure that is already in place can be repurposed as well. Typically, we begin the project with a feasibility assessment to determine whether your assets can be converted to a Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS). The next step is to initiate a Front End Engineering Design (FEED) study in order to achieve a successful RGS conversion. Basic RGS conversion The basic conversion provides a cost-optimized solution that converts existing turbogenerators into synchronous condensers quickly. We will also take care of installing a tailor-made solution for startup and accelerating the generator. Flywheel conversion Generators can be extended with additional rotating mass from a flywheel to provide maximum inertia. Flywheels are operated in a partial vacuum and equipped with a cooling system to minimize friction losses and reduce cooling efforts. Hybrid conversion For maximum flexibility, you can couple a gas or steam turbine with an additional SSS (Synchro-Self-Shifting) clutch between the generator and the turbine. The option also exists to add additional inertia with a flywheel coupled to the existing shaft line. Have we piqued your interest? Get in touch with us today to learn more. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to an installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Power-to-X and e-fuels Power distribution Power transmission Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Other Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send If you are already a Siemens Energy customer, log in to the Customer Extranet Portal (CEP) for more information relevant to your unit. CEP log-in Looking for solutions for new-built power plants? We offer a wide range of synchronous condenser solutions that can be seamlessly integrated with large gas turbines and steam turbines. Learn more Frequently asked questions What is grid stability? Grid stability is what keeps the challenges to power systems, such as the spikes or lulls in demand, power line, or even generator failure, in check. Since power is produced on demand, it's critical to ensure that the power system frequency and voltage remain within normal ranges. Maintaining this balance is necessary to keep the power grid stable and efficient. What are the three essentials to achieve grid stability? To ensure the grid remains stable and secure, it is essential to balance the electricity grid through frequency stabilization, short circuit power, and voltage control. Flexibility stabilization happens when system inertia responds to sudden load imbalances. The inertia delays the Rate of Change of Frequency (RoCoF), so downstream grid stability controls can be executed. What is grid inertia? Grid inertia is the ability of a power grid to absorb changes in frequency without destabilizing the system. It is the key factor for maintaining grid stability. What is short circuit power contribution? Short circuit power contribution is the ability of an electrical machine to inject high levels of current during a grid short circuit event, to ride through the fault and maintain a stable grid. Why does voltage control matter for grid stability? Voltage control is the ability to inject and absorb reactive power to ensure a stable system voltage. This helps to reduce the voltage drop caused by the short circuit, limit the short circuit current, and quickly restore the power system's stability. It also enables keeping the system voltage within an acceptable range. RGS References 3 min read Townsville, Australia: Hybrid RGS conversion to alternate between power production and grid stability mode 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services November 30, 2022 12 min read Ireland's great grid stabilizer November 22, 2021 8 min read This way for the right momentum to grid stability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025