Responsible minerals Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy statement on the responsible sourcing of minerals What makes responsible mineral sourcing essential for our supply chain? Sustainability in its three dimensions – environment, people & society, and responsible business practices – is of the highest importance. Sustainable conduct forms the basis of our business decisions and dealings with our stakeholders. The Siemens Energy “Business Conduct Guidelines” provide the ethical and legal framework in which we strive to conduct successful activities. Adherence to applicable laws and internal policies is an essential part of our integrity, and fundamental to our business. In order to also ensure sustainability in our supply chain, we have established the “Code of Conduct” . The “Siemens Energy Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries” is based on – among others – the UN Global Compact and the principles of the International Labor Organization. We contractually commit our suppliers to the "Code of Conduct” and also expect them to promote the standards contained therein to their suppliers. One of the topics dealt with in the Code of Conduct is the responsible sourcing of minerals. This topic is also addressed in the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Chains of Minerals from conflict-affected countries. Affected and High-Risk Areas (“OECD Due Diligence Guidance”), as well as various national and international provisions, for example in the USA and in the European Union. Siemens Energy exercises its responsibility within the supply chain. Siemens Energy, like many other companies, is aware of the difficult situation that products and components purchased from suppliers may contain minerals originating from conflict-affected countries. We have rolled out a uniform and enterprise-wide process to determine the use, source and origin of certain minerals in our supply chain. We work closely with our direct suppliers to support us in carrying out these steps. Where necessary, we work with suppliers in order to remediate risks and perform additional due diligence so that we can continue to source responsibly, building on established management processes. Our responsible minerals sourcing policy PDF (161 KB) Download Find out more about how we are working together to responsibly source minerals and ensure our supply chain reflects our values. Responsible Smelter Assessment Program Responsible Minerals Assurance Process Download EU Regulation REGULATION (EU) 2017/821 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL Responsible Minerals Initiative We do not, however, encourage implementing a de facto embargo on conflict-affected and high-risk areas, including the DRC and adjoining countries in the sourcing of Conflict Minerals. This is in line with our requirement to comply with the principles of non discrimination with regard to supplier selection and treatment and follows the call of many internationally active human rights organizations. Siemens Energy has actively supported and plans to further support the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas” as a pilot-member for the development of the respective Due Diligence processes which expressly recognizes a Risk-Based Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain as well as industry-wide initiatives like the “ Responsible Minerals Initiative ”. European Partnership for Responsible Minerals Siemens Energy is a strategic member of the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals. The EPRM is a multi-stakeholder partnership with the objective to increase the proportion of responsibly produced minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs) and to support socially responsible extraction of minerals that contributes to local development. European Partnership for Responsible Minerals The Copper Mark Siemens Energy has joined The Copper Mark as a partner organisation which uses or relies on copper in its business and has made a public commitment to The Copper Mark vision and objectives of promoting responsible production practices. For further information, please see: The Copper Mark Any questions? Please send us an e-mail Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025