Cybersecurity for Energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Perpetual vigilance for what’s mission critical The energy sector has become a primary target for cyber attacks. Siemens Energy helps its customers confront the growing cyber threat with our protection, detection, and monitoring solutions. Siemens Energy, in partnership with Tenable, discusses current trends and challenges in industrial cybersecurity. A conversation with Jonathan Tubb from Siemens Energy and Marty Edwards from Tenable on breaking down current trends in industrial cybersecurity and how to overcome them. We discussed the topics of; 2023 cybersecurity in review, insurance policies and trends, movement to proactive security vs. reactive security, the importance of cybersecurity for power generation, and roles and responsibilities. Watch the whole video Siemens Energy and Tenable are expanding our cooperation to secure critical energy infrastructure. Among other things, this means our proven Omnivise T3000 control system security protection will be enhanced with Tenable OT Security at the core. Watch the video to learn more on the cooperation Building the Next Generation of Industrial Cyber Defenders Siemens Energy and National Academic and Non-profit Partners announced a new Cybersecurity & Industrial Infrastructure Security Apprenticeship Program (CIISAp). Blog: Building the Next Generation of Industrial Cyber Defenders Read the press release Intelligent Illumination for IoT Cyber Defense Eos.ii™ is the first AI-based monitoring and detection platform that can serve as the foundation for securing industrial IoT in an era of persistent cyberattacks Read the blog here Cybersecurity is mission critical for energy companies. Here's why: Attack frequency and severity Energy companies increasingly recognize that their likelihood of being attacked is nearly 100% and that they must strengthen their agility and resiliency so they can respond when - not if - they are attacked. Complex and changing regulatory environment Governments are responding to the growing cyber threat by rolling out comprehensive critical infrastructure regulations. But there is a difference between being compliant and being secure. Digitalization is making cyber a business imperative Increased connectivity, automation, and data-driven operations makes a strong cybersecurity program essential. What can be done to prevent cyber attacks? Cybersecurity for the Oil and Gas industry Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers Siemens Energy, Saudi Aramco and the World Economic Forum launched a cybersecurity playbook for the oil and gas industry. The report, “Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry Playbook” , establishes a blueprint for boards and business leaders to evaluate cyber risk and enhance cyber resilience across the industry. Download the playbook Oil and Gas cybersecurity page Insights from our cyber experts Cyber Solutions Intelligent Illumination for IoT Cyber Defense Eos.ii™ empowers CISOs and SOCs with the platform and insights needed to scale up security to meet the demands of IoT business models. It offers unmatched capabilities to help energy and critical infrastructure organizations build and maintain robust, adaptable, and resilient defenses in a fast-moving and competitive IoT future. Read more Illuminate. Secure. Empower. Managed Detection and Response (MDR) powered by Eos.ii™ is an AI-based service, powered by Siemens Energy’s revolutionary monitoring platform. It provides energy companies with the visibility and context to shine a light into industrial operating environment to stop attacks before they occur. Read more Simulating a cyberattack on the energy industry This white paper offers an example of an attack against a fictional electric utility, as it manages an unfolding crisis and illustrates how incident response planning can make a difference in reaching the least disruptive outcome. Read more Secure by Design for Offshore Wind Wind farm developers, owners, and operators share an interest in cybersecurity risk manage ment strategies that account for the full life cycle of these assets. To ensure secure reliable renewable power delivery, offshore wind farms should be built and operated with a secure by design approach, with systems-level integration in mind, and with the understanding that the threat environment will continue to evolve long after construction is complete. Read more Energy Industry Transforming the energy industry with AI This MIT Technology Review report gathers insights from leading practitioners in the oil and gas sector to better understand how global companies are applying advanced digital technologies to both improve efficiency and protect themselves from cyberattacks — and why AI is the key to unlocking and securing the energy transition. Read more Cyber Study on the Utilities Industry This report from the Ponemon Institute highlights the unique cybersecurity requirements for  for the Utility industry. Read more Cyber Readiness of the Middle East O&G Industry In conjunction with the Ponemon Institute, this report delves into the cyber readiness of the oil and gas industry in the Middle East. Read more Cyber study on the US O&G industry Learn how US companies in the oil and gas industry are addressing cybersecurity risks in the operational technology (OT) environment. Read more Cybersecurity is a dynamic and evolving threat: perpetual vigilance for what’s mission critical Understand your cyber strengths and weaknesses Our offering: Gap analysis What you will get: Findings report that includes both a critical gap summary and a roadmap for recommended remediation Increase your preparedness to respond to a security event or cyber attack Our offering: Incident response planning and testing What you will get: Detailed plan on how to respond to and remediate cyber attacks, including emergency procedures, roles, and resources Protect your perimeter, review your security and deploy regular malware updates Our offering: Firewall assessment and patch management What you will get: Findings and recommendations for heightened security; malware pattern updates and management Gain the capability for real-time detection and prevention of security threats Our offering: Security event monitoring system What you will get: Real-time monitoring by collecting and parsing security logs A comprehensive range for cybersecurity Our broad portfolio combines leading industry technologies and tools with expert know-how Managed Detection and Response Siemens Energy, along with its technology partner Darktrace, brings real-time anomaly detection to the industrial OT environment. Siemens Energy Plant Security Monitoring service provides the continuous visibility required to make smarter, faster decisions. Vulnerability Management The Siemens Energy Vulnerability Management solution provides a non-intrusive way to discover, visualize, and monitor sensitive systems continuously. We provide technical support for designing, deploying, and enabling Tenable's unique software on the control system network to provide a complete picture across the network. Cyber Asset Management Plant managers often lack an up-to-date, comprehensive asset inventory of all connected assets. Siemens Energy, in conjunction with PAS™, helps our customers meet this challenge with automated Cyber Asset Management. This includes configuration change management and advice on potential cybersecurity threats. What are the challenges you face in building a cyber defense program? Do you fear that connectivity makes you more not less vulnerable to cyber attacks? Many energy companies keep their networks unconnected because they believe this makes them cyber secure. This misguided strategy will fall victim to more successful attacks, from inside and outside. Connectivity gives you visibility which provides insight. Do you lack understanding of what assets to protect? Many companies do not know what assets and devices exist on their OT networks. This limits their understanding of where their infrastructure is most vulnerable. Do you have a shortage of in-house OT cyber expertise? Most energy companies have focused on building up their IT cyber capabilities. But these cannot be simply deployed into the OT environment because of differences in the systems, data, devices, and critical dependencies. Because of this inattention to OT, cybersecurity experts who can secure complex, aging, and interdependent infra-structure are hard to find. Do you have older legacy systems with exposures and vulnerabilities that are difficult to protect? OT systems are older than IT systems. OT equipment, which can last decades, is often developed with proprietary systems that have exposures and vulnerabilities difficult to protect. Are your security monitoring and response capabilities adequate? Even if a company detects a potential intrusion into its OT cybersecurity environment, it may lack the plans or capabilities to respond effectively. Do you need a multi-vendor cyber solution? Cyber solutions must apply across multiple vendors to provide a single, seamless cyber program. If you say “yes” to one or more of the questions above, you are not alone. For energy companies, the probability of a cyber attack is nearly 100% . Overcoming the fear of connectivity is essential because the benefits of digitalization are too great. Organizations must focus on agility and resiliency so they can respond when – not if – they are attacked. Send us a message Our Team We combine our deep OT know-how with cutting-edge technology from selected partners to provide end-to-end solutions for every step in our customers' cybersecurity journey. Videos and webcasts News and blog posts Behind the Firewall: A Conversation on the Evolution of Cybersecurity for the Utility Industry Download Siemens Energy Collaborates with ServiceNow to Enable Precision Defense Against Cyber Threats Targeting the Energy Industry Read more Siemens Energy announces new AI-driven cybersecurity monitor and detection service for the energy industry Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025