Modular integrated solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Modular integrated solution for oil and gas With decades of experience in delivering integrated solutions, we have supplied over 120 modular integrated solutions totaling more than 100,000 tons. Our commitment to on-time delivery and adherence to customer specifications sets us apart in the industry. We understand the oil and gas industry demands field-proven power, e-houses and compression solutions and we deliver modular integrated solutions that prioritize safety, efficient installation, minimal downtime, and addresses space constraints . Customized, modular solutions for oil and gas applications Siemens Energy offers highly reliable, plug-and-play modular integrated solutions for electrical houses, power generation, and compression, tailored to meet the specific needs of both offshore and onshore applications. Additionally, Siemens Energy provides turnkey, fully-featured compressor stations and floating power solutions . These offerings are sole-sourced for simplicity and convenience, helping to reduce costs and mitigate risks. Minimize installation time, risk,  and surface footprint Siemens Energy owns product development and production facilities, along with a partner fabrication yard. Our service and operation team offers support throughout the entire project life cycle , leveraging decades of market experience in modular integrated solutions. This enables us to p rovide single-source solutions that are custom-designed, fabricated, and pre-tested to ensure the highest levels of performance and reliability. Do you have questions regarding our products, solutions or services? Contact us Our modular integrated solutions Electrical house (E-House) for FPSO and LNG Our comprehensive modular solution units feature standardized, perfectly matched components that are preassembled into customized single- or multi-story buildings. These units are prefabricated and rigorously tested, ensuring they include all the required components for seamless integration and optimal performance. Compressor modules Pre-fabricated units featuring compressors, equipment, and Balance of Plant (BoP) components, all fully assembled and rigorously tested for optimal performance. Power generation modules These self-contained, plug-and-play units generate electrical power and come with all necessary equipment and Balance of Plant (BoP) components. Each unit is fully assembled and rigorously tested to ensure optimal performance and reliability. Compression station All components of our compression stations are meticulously matched to work seamlessly together, ensuring they meet the most rigorous customer demands, even in the world's harshest environments. Combined cycle power generation We offer green energy solutions utilizing gas turbines, steam turbines, and once-through steam generators. Our combined cycle systems achieve thermal efficiencies of at least 60%, significantly higher than the 40% efficiency typically provided by traditional steam power generation. Hydrogen modules We cover the entire hydrogen value chain, from wind parks and power transmission to large-scale industrial water electrolysis. Our expertise extends to compression, transport, storage, and hydrogen-based power and heat generation, ensuring a comprehensive and integrated approach. Siemens Energy as sole-source modular integrated solution Benefits of a Siemens Energy sole-source modular integrated solution are project simplification, convenience, less risk, and significant savings in schedule and costs. After all, sole-sourcing makes procurement much easier and reduces the number of vendors involved, eliminating integration challenges and risk. It better enables comprehensive, end-to-end lifecycle management of the modular integrated solution. In turn, this approach saves project and manpower requirements, while reducing schedule risk and costs associated with integration, testing, and sparing. It can also help lower total cost of ownership, boosting return on invested capital over time. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025