Siemens Energy to supply F-class gas turbines to power China’s Greater Bay Area development Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to supply F-class gas turbines to power China’s Greater Bay Area development Press release February 23, 2021 Berlin Two SGT5-4000F units for Guangdong Energy Group new CHP project Most advanced F-class technology to date Carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions reduction of up to 60% by utilizing natural gas as fuel source versus coal Siemens Energy has reached an agreement with Guangdong Energy Group Co., Ltd. (Guangdong Energy Group), to provide F-class gas turbine island equipment for the Zhaoqing Dinghu Combined Heat and Power (CHP) generation project. Located in Dinghu District, Zhaoqing City, Guangdong Province, the project is expected to be put into operation in 2023. When completed, it will become a key part for optimizing the energy structure and layout of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) and building a modern energy supply system. The project is the first worldwide to provide Siemens F-class gas-steam combined cycle units with the latest and newest design that features a large, elevated operation platform layout and mirrored side air intake system. The 2×460MW class gas-steam CHP units include two SGT5-4000F gas turbines, two steam turbines, four generators, two SPPA-T3000 control systems and related auxiliary equipment. “We are proud to support Guangdong Energy Group with our highly efficient F-class gas turbines in making a significant contribution towards their decarbonization efforts,” said Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy. “A modern energy supply system for the GBA is an important step towards China’s 2060 carbon neutral goal and we look forward to our continued cooperation with Guangdong Energy Group in this direction.” The project will bring both economic and environmental benefits to the GBA: estimated annual power generation capacity up to 3.5 billion kWh, combined cycle efficiency of the unit of 60% or more and CO 2 emission reduction up to 60%, which not only provides clean electricity to the grid, but also supports the heating demand of the industrial clusters in the area by replacing scattered small boilers. To date, more than 350 units of 50Hz F-class gas turbines from Siemens Energy have been installed worldwide with the equivalent operating hours exceeding 17 million hours. Siemens Energy's F-class gas turbines debuted in the market in 1996 and has 25 years of operational experience worldwide. The SGT5-4000F gas turbine has been optimized for outstanding performance and excellent efficiency Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (197 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks December 15, 2022 Berlin First tests for Power-to-Hydrogen-to-Power HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully completed See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025