HYFLEXPOWER consortium successfully operates a gas turbine with 100 percent renewable hydrogen, a world first Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications HYFLEXPOWER consortium successfully operates a gas turbine with 100 percent renewable hydrogen, a world first Press release October 13, 2023 Berlin Latest successful series of tests offer a decisive outlook for carbon-neutral power generation and the decarbonization of industry. Installed on the site of Smurfit Kappa, world leader in paper packaging, at Saillat-sur-Vienne in France, the HYFLEXPOWER project consists in producing, storing and re-electrification of 100 percent renewable hydrogen. The hydrogen is produced by an 1MW electrolyzer on-site, and then stored in an almost one-ton tank and used to power a Siemens Energy SGT-400 industrial gas turbine. The HYFLEXPOWER project demonstrates that hydrogen can be used as a flexible energy storage medium, and that it’s also possible to convert an existing gas-fired power turbine to operate using renewable hydrogen. Thus it is a real driver for accelerating the decarbonization of the most energy-intensive industries. In 2022, an initial series of tests enabled the industrial gas turbine to operate with a 30 percent hydrogen content, mixed with natural gas. Now the power-to-hydrogen-to-power demonstrator has proven that state-of-the-art turbines with dry low emissions technology can be fueled with up to 100% hydrogen as well as with natural gas and any blends in between. From demonstrator to market The HYFLEXPOWER consortium includes Siemens Energy, ENGIE via its subsidiary ENGIE Solutions, Centrax, Arttic, the German Aerospace Center (DLR), and four European universities. Building on the promise of the HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator, it is planned to expand the consortium to include additional members. Having tested HYFLEXPOWER for electricity production, the goal is now to extend its operation to industrial heat production and additional operational modes. It is also planned to explore ways of scaling up and commercializing decarbonized electricity generation. Exemplary multi-partner project supported by the European Commission HYFLEXPOWER has received substantial funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation.* As the consortium lead, Siemens Energy supplied the electrolyzer for hydrogen production and developed the hydrogen gas turbine. ENGIE built the hydrogen production, storage and supply for the demonstrator. Centrax were responsible for the package upgrade to ensure safe operation with hydrogen fuel. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) and the Universities of Lund (Sweden), Duisburg-Essen (Germany), and University College London (UK) contributed to the hydrogen turbine technology development. Arttic supported the operational project management, while NTUA in Athens (Greece) carried out economic, environmental, and social analysis of the concept. "The knowledge and experience gained from the HYFLEXPOWER project where we installed the 1st gas turbine to run on 100 percent hydrogen will help us to continue develop our entire gas turbine fleet for a hydrogen-based future. The interaction between electrolysis, storage, and hydrogen conversion at one site has been impressively demonstrated, and now it's a matter of scaling the results," says Karim Amin, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy. "At ENGIE, we are very proud of this world first. The HYFLEXPOWER project is remarkable for many reasons: for the exceptional collaboration it has enabled between several European partners, for the forward-looking technologies it has tested, and for the promising prospects it opens up for the use of renewable hydrogen in the industrial sectors most difficult to decarbonize. We look forward to continuing this decisive work for the future of decarbonized industry with our partners,' says Frank Lacroix, ENGIE Executive Vice President in charge of Energy Solutions. “We’re proud that our Saillat paper mill has been the host for this project because trialing new and emerging technology, such as hydrogen, aligns with our decarbonization strategy and Better Planet 2050 journey. Today’s announcement is a great milestone that puts us in good stead,” says Garrett Quinn, Chief Sustainability Officer at Smurfit Kappa. * This project has received funding from the European Horizon 2020 innovation and research program under grant agreement n°884229 Schematic illustration of HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator Contact Sabine Sill sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com +49 173 7196783 Contact - ENGIE Cécile Chopard cecile-chopard@external.engie.com +33 (0) 6 03 18 42 67 Contact - Centrax Harry Trump sales@centraxag.com +44 1626 358000 Download Press Release HYFLEXPOWER consortium successfully operates a gas turbine with 100 percent renewable hydrogen, a world first October 14, 2023 PDF (137 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 94,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens-energy.com . Read more Read less Read more July 25, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy wins contract for large-scale hydrogen project from German utility EWE November 8, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy and Air Liquide pave the way for the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy with new gigawatt factory for electrolyzers November 8, 2023 Berlin Opening of the Siemens Energy Electrolyzer Factory September 15, 2023 Berlin 250,000 tons less CO2 thanks to renewable hydrogen: Siemens Energy delivers electrolyzers to Normandy See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025