BlueVault Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications BlueVault™ energy storage solutions Reliable and renewable solutions As renewable energy production increases, operators are challenged to supply reliable energy at premium cost-efficiency. Siemens Energy BlueVault™ storage solutions promote on-demand, dispatchable renewable power, increase profitability during fluctuating demand, optimize on-site power sources, capitalize on peak loads (while reducing demand charges), increase conventional power plant flexibility, and provide operating reserves while improving the security of your energy supply. Our team uses innovative design and simulation tools to tailor an agnostic technology portfolio to your specific requirements. BlueVault™ energy storage solutions are an advanced lithium-ion battery-based solution, suited for both all-electric and hybrid energy-storage applications. BlueVault™ is designed to help ensure continuity of power and to minimize emissions, with an end goal of a low-emission platform. The battery is designed to maximize life, performance and safety. BlueVault™ can be installed in newbuild as well as retrofit diesel-electric power plants and in all type vessels, drilling or FPSO. Download Brochure PDF (734 KB) Download From initial analysis to energy storage maintenance, you benefit from our expertise. Up to some years ago, the marine and offshore market required assets which were oversized in capacity. Reason for this were the class requirement for safe operations, the operators need for having a “robust” power plant, and a general not focus on efficiency and green solutions. Siemens Energy is focused on the complete project lifecycle. Siemens Energy BlueVault™ storage solution enables on-demand and dispatchable power, increases and optimizes the reliability and availability of power generation, increase conventional power plant flexibility, and provide operating reserves while improving the security of your energy supply. Our team uses innovative design and simulation tools to tailor an agnostic technology portfolio to your specific requirements. BlueVault™ energy storage solution success stories Pilot project with battery technology for hydro power plants Contribution to a decarbonized future​ Frequency stabilization and voltage control enable renewable energy supply according to demand​ Usage of battery for grid stabilization enables wind power generation in region of Fosen​ Transition from fossil to renewable solutions through renewable power generation, electrification and energy efficiency “ ​The system contains a containerized BlueVault battery storage, inverter system and transformer connection to power station. Based on the BlueVault technology we deliver a system that enables the customer Aneo to optimize the production of energy from the power station by peak power control, energy allocation and frequency stabilization Ketil  Aagesen Head of BlueVault Technology, Siemens Energy, Grid Technologies Press Release: Power from shore solution will help Equinor reduce offshore platform emissions in the North Sea Siemens Energy hopes to support Norway in reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and will be supplying equipment for the electrical transmission, distribution and power management system for the Troll West Electrification Project, operated by Equinor in the North Sea with Aker Solutions . Read more Press Release: Odfjell Drilling rigs to feature Siemens Energy BlueDrive DC-Grid technology to minimize emissions BlueDrive DC-Grid technology will help Odfjell Drilling minimize rig emissions, enabling customers to meet their long-term emission reduction targets. It is the first of its kind to be installed on an offshore drilling rig. Read more BlueVault™ power talks Importance of using battery storage Siemens Energy and Maersk Drilling discuss the importance of using battery storage during this period of energy transition. Watch video Indications of savings from using battery storage Siemens Energy and Maersk Drilling discuss early indications of savings from using battery storage and a sustainable strategy for operations now and to come. Watch video Contact our experts! Get in touch with us for more information about BlueVault™ Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025