A field service engineer’s career journey Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey by Courtney Kerscher Career Story Onshore Field service Discover the dynamic Field Service Engineer role at Siemens Energy. Get insights and expert advice for joining our innovative team. Stationed in Erlangen, Germany, David Krieg is an inspiration in terms of expertise and enthusiasm in the realm of service engineering. His journey traces back to 2008 when he embarked in vocational school at Siemens. Transitioning from a high voltage cable fitter role, to his current position as a field service engineer at Siemens Energy supporting our grid technologies business, he has found himself drawn to the dynamic landscape of the profession, with countless challenges and opportunities. In addition to his professional pursuits, David is an avid mountain biking enthusiast. He actively engages with the community, advocating for the construction of mountain bike trails in local forests, demonstrating his proactive approach to projects beyond the workplace. Read more about David's experience in the engineering field and how you can make a difference at Siemens Energy. “ Don't be afraid to put yourself out there and be honest about your experience and aspiration David Krieg What makes working as a field service engineer so special? Working as a field service engineer is truly special because of the variety it offers. I'm engaged in different tasks, ensuring that systems, particularly complex ones like cooling systems and air conditioning, are running smoothly. The dynamic nature of the job means there's always something to learn, which keeps it exciting. Plus, the travel aspect adds an extra layer of diversity - from France to Spain, the UK, offshore in the North Sea, and even as far as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. As a service specialist, I'm involved in shutdown operations, which vary in duration depending on the scale of the task - from just a few days for small operations and up to two weeks for larger ones. This variety keeps things interesting, and I enjoy the challenge of adapting to different environments and meeting new people. What are the key challenges you face in your role, and how do you overcome them? The biggest challenge is the need to quickly adapt and ensure safe working conditions , especially when there's a need to switch work layouts. These pivots can lead to time delays but it's crucial to oversee everything to maintain safety standards. As a supervisor, I often collaborate with various teams and other departments for tasks like customer tests and converted tower operations. Whether it's a small site with a small team or a big site with a larger team, managing these challenges requires effective coordination and communication with colleagues and subcontractors. How do you collaborate with other teams or departments within Siemens Energy to ensure seamless operations and customer support? Collaboration with other teams or departments is essential to ensure seamless operations and customer support. I work closely with departments responsible for various sites, maintaining regular contact with field service personnel through scheduled appointments to discuss potential issues. We have monthly internal meetings to stay connected and updated. We also hold an annual training event where we connect with field service personnel across the business allowing us to bond with peers, share best practices and engage with new colleagues. There is also a Mulheim training camp for our business area Gas Services, which facilitates conversations and strengthens collaboration across departments. What does a typical day as a field service engineer look like for you? As a field service engineer, my typical day involves overseeing both on-site and plant operations. First thing in the morning, I ensure all safety protocols are in place for everyone involved, including subcontractors and staff. This includes checking safety documents, conducting briefings, and assigning tasks. Throughout the day, I coordinate maintenance activities, which often involves working with a lot of subcontractors. I also provide support to our customers who are on-site during shutdowns. Once the maintenance tasks are completed, I thoroughly inspect everything and prepare a detailed report for the project manager. What is the most important piece of advice you can give someone applying for a position with Siemens Energy? The most important piece of advice for someone applying to Siemens Energy, is to have the courage to apply. There are plenty of opportunities for growth and fullfillment within the company. Don't be afraid to put yourself out there and be honest about your experience and aspirations, whether you prefer traveling or staying on-site. Siemens Energy is a diverse company with various areas to develop your skills, so embrace the possibilities and take the leap! Ready to step forward and start your journey in service engineering? Explore jobs Read more March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025