About Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications About us We are Siemens Energy – a global leader in energy technology The energy transition is the greatest challenge our generation faces. How do we reduce emissions while also increasing energy supply? It is an uphill battle. And there is no silver bullet. But finding solutions has always been in our DNA. For more than 150 years our engineers have been spearheading the electrification of the world. Today we are a team of 100,000 sharing the same passion, vision and values. Our diversity makes us strong and helps us to find answers together with our partners. Located in 90 countries, Siemens Energy operates across the whole energy landscape. From conventional to renewable power, from grid technology to storage to electrifying complex industrial processes. Our mission is to support companies and countries with what they need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make energy reliable, affordable, and more sustainable. Let’s energize society. 1 /6 of global electricity generation is based on our technology 100,000 employees work as a team to energize society 90 we are present in >90 countries > 1 bn euro we invest more than € 1bn in research and development. Company Presentation PDF (6 MB) Download Decarbonization through technology To speed up the energy transition, we put all our energy into working with customers and partners to build sustainable energy systems along the value chain. Learn more People with responsibility With a common goal to master the challenges of the energy transition, we leverage the drive, power and expertise of every employee and differentiate on the how with our customers. Learn more Innovation and partnerships We join forces to innovate tomorrow’s sustainable energy solutions. Learn more Profitability as a Foundation To create resilient energy systems for society, we need to be a stable and profitable business. Learn more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025