Siemens Energy’s HL-class technology enables Greece to reduce CO2 emissions and protect the environment Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy’s HL-class technology enables Greece to reduce CO2 emissions and protect the environment Press release September 30, 2021 Munich First delivery of HL-class gas turbine technology to Greece World’s most powerful combined cycle power plant in 1x1 configuration Reduced CO2 emissions and environmental impact, increased security of supply Siemens Energy is supplying its state-of-the-art, highly efficient HL-class gas turbine technology to Greece for the first time. As part of a new combined cycle power plant in Komotini in the northeast of the country, it will provide reliable and economical power generation. With an installed electrical capacity of 877 megawatts (MW), it will be the world’s most powerful combined cycle power plant in 1x1 configuration. The construction of the new plant is of strategic importance for Greece. It will cover the country’s increased demand for electricity, which will result from the gradual withdrawal of lignite production units. The switch to a modern gas-fired power plant with high efficiencies will reduce CO2 emissions by up to 3.7 million tons per year compared to a coal power plant. It will also reduce the environmental impact and increase the security of supply. Customer Terna S.A. is building the entire plant for the project company Thermoilektriki Komotinis M.A.E. The company is owned in equal parts by Motor Oil Renewable Energy (MORE) and GEK Terna. Commissioning of the plant is scheduled for mid-2024. “We trusted Siemens Energy because it’s a leading manufacturer of units with natural gas fuel, it met our requirements, and it convinced us that it will be by our side with its experience until the completion of the project. The cooperation of the two companies to interconnect Crete with the mainland is continuing in the area of electricity production,” said Ioannis Stefanatos, Director of Energy Projects at Terna S.A. Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy, said: “We thank Terna for trusting Siemens Energy as its partner of choice for the prestigious combined cycle power plant in Komotini. We’re excited that our technology and expertise will play a critical role in Greece’s strategic journey of shifting from coal/lignite power plants to gas-fired power generation. Our proven HL gas turbines will provide a reliable supply of electricity at efficiency levels above 64 percent, resulting in a significant reduction of CO2 emissions – a target Greece is determined to achieve. We’re very much looking forward to further expanding our collaboration with Terna in Greece and other countries.“ The new power plant will be fired with natural gas and is designed as a multi-shaft plant, with one gas turbine and one steam turbine each driving their own generator. The Siemens Energy scope of supply includes a power island consisting of an SGT5-9000HL gas turbine, an SST5-5000 steam turbine, an SGen5-3000W generator for the gas turbine, an SGen5-1200A generator for the steam turbine, the heat-recovery steam generator, and the SPPA-T3000 control system. Siemens Energy’s HL-class technology enables Greece to reduce CO2 emissions and protect the environment. With an installed electrical capacity of 877 megawatts (MW), it will be the world’s most powerful combined cycle power plant in 1x1 configuration. Links Further information on power plant solutions Contact Kerstin Schirmer Siemens Energy kerstin.schirmer@siemens-energy.com +49 172 2669588 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (168 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025