SGen-3000W generator series Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGen-3000W generator series High-power generator with proven water/hydrogen cooling technology Outstanding performance for large gas and steam power plant applications Our latest water-/hydrogen-cooled generators benefit from proven design and technologies as well as the application of our building-block approach. They share many features with other products across our portfolio. This  allows us to optimize material selection and performance to provide you with a low-cost, highly efficient, and easily maintained generator for high-power applications. Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Highlights of the SGen-3000W generator series High operational flexibility Modern grids require high operational flexibility because of the increased integration of renewable energy sources. Our design supports high ramp-up/down rates, frequent start/stops while maintaining low thermal mechanical stress in the stator windings. MICALASTIC® insulation system Our proven MICALASTIC® insulation system and Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) technology ensure maximum electrical endurance and outstanding availability. Your benefits: Insensitive to thermal cycling No maintenance required Very low mechanical stress during operation Non-flammable and self-extinguishing; no fire-extinguishing system needed Proven Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) and water cooling technolgy Combining GVPI stators with water cooling enables uniform temperatures and low stress levels to enhance operational flexibility. The proven reliability is greater than 99.9% for more than 1,700 stator windings between 10 and 22 kV with an output of up to 1,300 MVA. Our fleet leader has over 150,000 operating hours and 3,320 start/stop cycles. Proven components Our generators display a high level of common parts across the portfolio (e.g. stator core assembly and rotor). The reusing of parts and components improves the availability of spare parts and increases the quality in manufacturing and assembly at our factory as well as on site. Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) Service and maintenance State-of-the-art manufacturing Tailor-made for today's flexible operating environment Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) wound stator cores The SGen-3000W implements technology featuring the latest verified design with more than 1,700 GVPI stators in operation across all operating ranges and a fleet-leading water-cooled GVPI stator with over 150,000 hours of operation and more than 3,320 start/stop cycles with no indication of thermal-mechanical stress-related  issues. Hydrogen cooling with water-cooled stator bars makes this generator series ideal for any operating regime. Global Vaccum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) stator cores Our patented MICALASTIC® insulation system using GVPI is highly resistant to mechanical and thermal stresses while featuring excellent electrical properties. Generator cooling Enhanced cooling gas flow through patented ramped sub-slot design for a uniform cooling distribution. Our engineers use the latest Computer Fluid Dynamics (CFD) tools to validate the ventilation circuit of the SGen-3000W series to ensure that our generators will meet your as well as our own high expectations. Service and maintenance The SGen-3000W generator series was designed for simplified service and maintenance. Along with eliminating hydrogen-related generator auxiliaries, various service-friendly design solutions have been implemented. Its components have been tried and tested over decades of operation, achieving a reliability rate of more than 99.9%.  To minimize downtime, the maintenance intervals have been aligned with those of the prime mover and now allow for longer intervals between servicing than ever before. The rotor is designed for lifetime operation without removal for service. Short construction and commissioning times Our generators arrive on-site almost fully assembled with the rotor installed – a design feature that simplifies the installation process. Our certified engineers have extensive experience in commissioning and help to achieve faster start-up times and smooth operation. The SGen-3000W is designed for easy access. The many manholes installed allow for the majority of maintenance to be completed requiring very little generator disassembly. Condition-based maintenance Besides standard inspection scopes and intervals, you also have the option of implementing a condition-based maintenance plan using customized installed instrumentation, component analytics, and a remaining life counter for better predictions. Based on advanced data analytics performed by experts in our network of power diagnostics centers, we can advise you on a maintenance schedule according to your specific operation conditions and needs. State-of-the-art manufacturing Our reliable and robust generator is the result of our manufacturing and engineering design teams working in close collaboration throughout its development. By applying latest digital technologies, our manufacturing facilities stepped up to create a world-class product for you with excellent lead times. Manufacturing excellence The SGen-3000W generator design focuses on the strengths of our manufacturing facilities using tried-and-tested manufacturing processes and newly co-developed processes to efficiently build generators for you. Manufacturing technology Our manufacturing facilities implement as many automated processes as possible, resulting in a high ratio of repetition in the construction of our generators. Automated processes are key to building high-quality, robust generators that operate reliably for you. Tailor-made for today's flexible operating environment The SGen-3000W series utilizes proven technology with endurance verified in the field showing it can withstand the rigorous operating conditions of electrical grids impacted by the increasing integration of renewable energy sources. Water-cooled Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) stator Directly water-cooled stator bars protect against thermal-mechanical stress-related issues that are challenging for indirectly cooled coils in a highly cyclic environment. Effective technology for all power ranges The SGen-3000W series is a direct extension of the SGen-2000P product line, utilizing the stator core and rotor technology in a H2 cooling medium to significantly increase the performance capacity of your application. Technical data SGen5-3000W SGen6-3000W Frequency 50 Hz 60 Hz Apparent power up to 1,300 MVA up to 1,300 MVA Efficiency up to 99% up to 99% Designed for power factor 0.80 0.85 Terminal voltage up to 27 kV up to 26 kV Design insulation class Class F Class F Weight (approx.) up to 425 t up to 390 t Gas and steam applications Water-/hydrogen-cooled generators for high power demands Flexible gas and steam power plants will remain a key component of a demand-driven power supply. They form the solid foundation of a diverse and clean energy mix, which is indispensable for meeting the world's current and future challenges. Our water-/hydrogen-cooled generators complement the turbine packages of any manufacturer and meet grid and environmental requirements as well as your individual needs. Generators for steam power plants Our generators can be flexibly integrated into combined cycle power plants or steam tailing applications. Generators for combined cycle power plants We supply generators for large simple or combined cycle power plants, suitable for peak, intermediate or base load duty, as well as cogeneration applications. Find out more about our products You would like a brochure, are interested in technical details or further information? Please visit our download section below. Brochures and technical papers SGen-2000P Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download SGen-3000W Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download MICALASTIC Factsheet PDF (2 MB) Download Technical papers Proven in commercial operation: SGen-3000W reference highlights With over 27 years of fleet operation for the SGen-3000W series we can draw on our experience of more than 120 units. Lünen, Germany (2013) Customer: Trianel Kohlekraftwerk Lünen GmbH & Co. KG Power output: 750 MW Apparent power: 993 MVA Frequency: 50 Hz Terminal voltage: 27 kV Scope: SST-6000 steam turbine, SGen-3000W generator Lausward, Düsseldorf, Germany (2016) Customer: Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG Power output: 603.8 MW(e), up to 300 MW(th) Apparent power: 1 x 608 MVA Frequency: 50 Hz Terminal voltage: 21 kV Efficiency: ~61.5% Scope: SCC5-8000H 1S with 1 x SGT5-8000H gas turbine, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, and 1 x SGen5-3000W generator Samsun, Turkey (2015) Customer: Cengiz Enerji Power output: 600 MW Apparent power: 700 MVA Frequency: 50 Hz Terminal voltage: 21 kV Efficiency: > 60% Scope: SCC5-8000H 1S with 1 x SGT5-8000H gas turbine, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, 1 x SGen5-3000W generator, SPPA-T3000 I&C system, and BENSON® HRSG Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025