Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications November 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp Story Transform conventional power More power equals more profit Product line: SST-400 steam turbine Project type: Turbine Revamp Year of completion: 2020 Project Description As one of the leading forest industrial companies, the growing pulp demand worldwide convinced the customer to make several investments to increase the pulp production of their existing mills. Resulting from the mill upgrades, more steam was available and opened up the possibility of upgrading the steam turbine as well. Thus, the customer decided to revamp the steam turbine in 2017. The target was clear: During the next Major Overhaul, the turbine should be revamped in order to increase the power output and guarantee operational reliability. Because of the OEM know-how, the technical expertise, and the clear focus on the customers objectives this order was awarded to Siemens-Energy. Solution After the execution of a feasibility study, including thermodynamic calculations, the scope of the revamp was determined. With the delivery of a new manufactured turbine rotor, guide blade carriers, and trip and extraction valves, a higher steam mass flow was accomplished, which in the end led to more power output of the turbine. The revamp was executed successfully  and in time during the Overhaul in 2020. Reasons for the success were the clear technical concept, know-how, expertise as well as the excellent teamwork. Customer Value After the Revamp project had been completed, the customer was able to increase the power output of his turbine up to >10%. Furthermore, the new internals led to a higher operational reliability and by reason of the power upgrade, a ROI of under 2 years was achieved. Characteristics Related links Siemens myAdvisor.com Contact Get in touch Related links September 21, 2020 2 min read Increased heating steam extraction through conversion form condensing into backpressure turbine July 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: Rotor Replacement for more Availability July 16, 2020 2 min read Reference: Replacement of LP Turbine November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey Related links Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025