Offshore grid connections Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Offshore grid connections Offshore grid connection solutions for efficient and reliable power transmission at sea Connections to a secure, reliable, and more decarbonized world of energy Integrating renewable energy sources and decarbonizing existing electricity infrastructure are key to meeting society’s energy needs while fighting climate change. Yet, these contributions to more carbon-neutral energy take place in remote areas often hundreds or even thousands of kilometers away from the centers of consumption. Effective solutions are vital to connecting all distributed power generation sources to the grid to make electricity available where it is really needed. Siemens Energy supplies a comprehensive range of reliable, efficient, and proven transmission systems as grid access solutions that meet and master these challenges. Offshore renewables Renewables such as wind power (on- and offshore) play an increasingly important role in the energy mix and contribute considerably to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. Siemens Energy supplies the entire of products and services to turnkey solutions required for efficiently harnessing the power of offshore renewables and getting the energy to the end consumer. This includes wind turbines and complete grid access solutions in HVAC and HVDC technology as well as monitoring and control solutions and operation and maintenance services. Offshore electrification Worldwide lowest emissions in offshore oil and gas production with offshore electrification solutions. Increasingly also Oil & Gas companies are energizing their offshore installations by the means electrical energy. Our HVDC and HVAC solutions supply industrial offshore sites efficiently with clean and reliable power. Siemens Energy`s HVDC and HVAC grid access and power supply solutions have proven their superior performance, reliability and availability in numerous projects all over the world - in the harshest climates. Floating substations Floating offshore wind opens the door to larger and deeper offshore areas with higher wind potential. Siemens Energy offers optimum floating substation solutions for the connection of floating offshore windfarms to the grid or floating power from shore to open the next frontier for renewables. From small modular HVDC power from shore applications, or floating HVAC substations, up to full-scale +1 GW floating HVDC solutions, Siemens Energy can offer a lean and innovative floating substation solution for the most challenging environments, based on long-term proven high-voltage technology, and optimized for minimal environmental impact. With clean air GIS solutions, ester-insulated transformers and closed cooling systems, the Siemens Energy floating OSS offers a valuable and sustainable grid connection for the future of floating windfarms. Meeting the challenges of the renewable energy era There are many challenges to be faced in today’s energy world that is fundamentally changing at a rapid pace. Electricity must come from renewables such as wind and solar power. Power generation must be as carbon-neutral as possible. The distance between power producers and consumers is increasing because renewables resources like offshore wind farms are further away from consumer centers. Grid capacity is growing as fossil power generation is gradually shutting down. This swiftly-advancing energy transition demands major changes to power grids, making it crucial to stabilize existing, strained grids to ensure continuously reliable operation. Guaranteeing security of power supply and consequently the security of reliable operation of such critical infrastructure is a matter of utmost priority. And while digitalization enables new technologies and solutions, it comes with the burdens of cybersecurity. Zero-subsidy renewables As a pioneer in offshore power transmission technologies and reliable partner for implementing high-voltage direct current (HVDC) and high-voltage alternating current (HVAC) solutions as well as flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) and a comprehensive range of related services, we support you with our in-depth, long-standing experience in the field of power transmission and distribution. With our holistic approach to the entire electricity transmission system, our experts drive continuous development in terms of both technology and economy. Collaborating with our customers, we deliver significant savings in the levelized cost of energy (LCOE) while further improving transmission system reliability and ensuring grid code compliance. And our expertise supports the zero-subsidy initiative for offshore projects. Offshore grid connections for every need Click on the various areas of application to learn more Our offshore grid connections are making today's power grids ready for tomorrow The benefits you reap Expertise you can count on Turnkey solutions We take responsibility for your entire projects, from pre-engineering right through commissioning, keeping your projects on time and on budget. And if you need long-term maintenance, we can provide that as well. Proven track-record We’ve been renowned for decades for meeting the highest standards in the energy sector. With our in-depth knowledge and state-of-the-art technology portfolio, we’re able to offer a broad range of offshore gird access solutions custom-tailored to your needs. Reliable partner You're faced with important decisions concerning the future of your energy assets. How can you ensure your operations will remain successful in future? Let Siemens Energy be your long-term partner, supporting your projects anywhere, over any time – even over decades. Consult with us, and you can rest assured that, together, we’ll find the optimum solution to fit your needs. Reliable performance We’ll help you ensure that your assets deliver continuously reliable performance by using advanced monitoring and control systems. These systems keep your performance right in line with our projections – and possibly even better. Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German Place your request Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025