Integrated Electrolyzer & Heat Pump Solution Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution Boost the efficiency of hydrogen production while decarbonizing district heating: For the production of green hydrogen, typically 70-80% of the electrical energy is used to split water into hydrogen and oxygen, while the rest is converted into waste heat. With our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution , we combine the production of hydrogen and heat: The heat pump dissipates the waste heat from the electrolyzer, raises its temperature to a higher level and makes it available for other processes, such as district heating . By removing waste heat, the heat pump also provides cooling for the electrolyzer, minimizing the need for other cooling equipment. Click on the plus buttons below to explore more about our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution. How does our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution support the energy transition? Lowering hydrogen production cost (LCoH) Decarbonizing district heating at competitive price Shorten Return on Invest (ROI) time for hydrogen and heat production solution A possible use case: the combined production of hydrogen and heat Whenever enough renewable energy is available, it can be used to produce hydrogen. The hydrogen can be easily stored for times when there is a shortage of renewable energy. At the same time, the heat pump uses the waste heat from the electrolyzer to produce heat at temperatures suitable for district heating. In times of renewable energy surplus , thermal power plants can be shut down because they are not needed for electricity or heat production. When heat production is higher than heat demand, the excess heat from the heat pump can be stored in thermal storage facilities. These processes are working together for our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution. During periods of renewable energy shortage and high energy prices, the hydrogen can be fired in a thermal plant (e.g., a hydrogen-ready gas turbine cogeneration plant) to produce electricity and heat. The heat from the thermal storage covers periods of high heat demand but low electricity demand . The integration of renewable energy in heat production helps to decarbonize district heating . The integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution lowers the levelized cost of energy for both hydrogen production and heat production for district heating by minimizing energy losses. Energy efficiency boost: electrolyzer and heat pump duo unleashed surplus power Electrolyzer provides an efficiency of about 75%. An integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution increases energy utilization. This calculation is based on a solution with hydrogen production of 1005 kg/h at 80 barg with a heat pump for district heating as mentioned in the table below. Please follow the power flows of the process in the diagram. The energy utilization is increased up to 96% and more . Our electrolyzer and heat pump solution An integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution consists of the PEM electrolyzer (standard configuration for 335 kg/h and 1005 kg/h hydrogen are available), a high-temperature heat pump (8 MWth or 24 MWth; max. achievable temperature for district heating: up to 150°C), the control system and hydrogen as well as heat storage. Click on the plus icons to learn more about the different component of our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solutions Benefits of our integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution Power-fully efficient Waste heat should not be wasted! Our solution increases the energy utilization of green hydrogen production from 75% to 96% or more. The heat pump uses the waste heat from the electrolyzer . It raises the temperature level and makes it usable for processes such as district heating. Power-fully intelligent Our solution provides automated and optimized operation through intelligent control that can manage energy supply and demand for electricity and heat, as well as reserve management. It uses real-time data in an autonomous and coordinated manner to ensure reliable 24/7 operation . Power-fully sustainable Integrating renewable energy into heat production decarbonizes district heating. It helps to reduce emissions and meet decarbonization targets. With the integration of hydrogen and heat storage, improved operational flexibility and reliability of the energy system could be an additional benefit. Technical data Parameter Configuration example H2 production 1005 kg/h H2 pressure 80 barg COP of heat pump 3 Thermal recovery/ input for district heating 24 MWth Heat supply temperature level (return - supply temperature) 60°C - 110°C Max. achievable temperature for district heating 150°C Energy utilization ≥98% Power demand for electrolyzer and heat pump 54.3 MWel Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025