power-generation-in-UK Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications June 18, 2024 3 min read Keadby2 Power Station: the future of power generation in the UK Transform conventional power Siemens Energy’s SGT5-9000HL Gas Turbine at SSE Thermal’s Keadby 2 Power Station in North Lincolnshire, UK is now GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS title holder for the most powerful combined cycle power plant and most efficient combined cycle power plant. The efficiency record of 64.18% was verified in May 2024, powered by a SGT5-9000HL gas turbine. It is also the most powerful combined cycle plant , with 849.45 MW. With that much power, efficiency wins mean significant savings of resources for generation. In addition, with fast gas turbine ramping, Keadby 2 provides important flexibility, complementing renewable generation. The station is a vital step in the UK’s journey to net zero, with plans for decarbonizing further, with the potential to blend hydrogen into the plant. Building a decarbonized, sustainable future together with our customers Construction of Keadby2 began in August 2018, to build a combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power station, and was officially handed over in March 2023. Keadby2 benefits from the latest ingenious power generation technology including world-leading Siemens Energy SGT5-9000HL 50Hz turbine which pushes efficiency and performance to the next level. “ We are moving towards a more automated future to make our power stations as safe, reliable and available as they can be. Andy Scott Head of Digital Engineering, SSE Thermal The Siemens Energy SGT5-9000HL gas turbine is the most efficient on the market and includes state-of-the-art 3D printed parts as part of its design. This advanced power station will provide large-scale efficient and reliable energy for up to 840,000 homes. A vital step in the UK’s journey to net zero, SSE's Keadby 2 Power Station in North Lincolnshire has officially entered commercial operations. Equipped with the SGT5-9000HL, it’s the most efficient plant of its type in the UK and Europe. The digitalization of Keadby2 Power Station Smart Asset Care at Keadby 2 Power Station Deploying the Omnivise Digital Service Portfolio, SSE and Siemens Energy developed Smart Asset Care for increased plant availability and employee safety at Keadby2 Power Station. The 'Powering Progress' report from SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy highlights the socio-economic impact of Keadby2 at a local, regional and national level. Socio-economic report for Keadby2 Keadby2 is expected to be the cleanest and most efficient gas-fired power station in Europe, and will contribute over £1bn to the UK economy over its lifetime. Discover the key facts of the HL-class and watch the video Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation October 11, 2023 13 min read MVV, Germany: Thousands of homes heated by river heat pump September 30, 2023 5 min read High Desert Power Plant: Empowering California See all stories Read more October 21, 2020 UK Keadby 2 Power Station to contributeover £1bn to UK economy October 17, 2023 Berlin Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid April 20, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy to supply technology for three offshore grid connections in the North Sea in billion-euro contract See all press releases Related topics Gas turbines Digital services Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025