Siemens completes major overhaul project at power plant in Hungary Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens completes major overhaul project at power plant in Hungary Press release November 14, 2019 Houston Gas turbine rotor exchange allows for increased output and efficiency Control system upgraded to latest version of SPPA-T3000 The Dunamenti Power Plant in Százhalombatta, Hungary, is the largest gas-fired power plant in the country with a capacity of 794 megawatts (MW), making it a major source of reliable electricity in Hungary. Recently, in collaboration with the customer and plant owner, MET Asset Management AG, and within the scope of an overhaul project, Siemens Gas and Power replaced the entire rotor of the plant's SGT5-2000E gas turbine and installed a new, state-of-the-art SPPA-T3000 control system. The rotor exchange for the SGT5-2000E at the Dunamenti Power Plant led to an increase in output from 148 MW to 155 MW and increased the unit's efficiency by approximately 0.8 percent. The turbine had already achieved 120,000 hours of operation and, with the new rotor, is now ready for the next 41,000 hours before the unit's next scheduled outage services. "Thanks to the fast and direct communication and information flow within our team and the excellent cooperation with the customer, we were able to execute this major project in just 51 days, a short time for such a big project," said Vinod Philip, CEO of Siemens Service Power Generation. "We are delighted that we have delivered this state-of-the-art technology to Dunamenti, thereby contributing to an efficient and more reliable energy supply in Hungary." "We've run several modernization and maintenance development projects in the last couple of years in order to secure sustainable operation at the Dunamenti Power Plant," said Péter Horváth, CEO of Dunamenti Power Plant. "As part of this agenda, the SGT5-2000E gas turbine manufactured by Siemens received a complete overhaul. Thanks to the maintenance, the SGT5-2000E turbine now guarantees additional 41,000 hours of operation for the power plant so we surely remain key energy supplier of the domestic energy market." The new SGT5-2000E gas turbine is known for its reliable performance and was the perfect and economically sensible solution for this overhaul. The exchange of the complete rotor leads to minimal downtime for the turbine since repairs become less necessary and more infrequent, which leads to decreased outage durations. With the new rotor, the turbine at the Dunamenti Power Plant is equipped with the latest Siemens technology featuring optimal design and efficiency values. A special feature of the project is the customized financing solution that allows Dunamenti to react flexibly to the future market requirements. In addition, the complete instrumentation and control system was upgraded to Siemens cutting-edge SPPA-T3000 R8.2 control system. The gas turbine modernization was the first of its kind worldwide using new SIMATIC ET 200SP HA hardware, which ensures a significantly higher signal density, redundancy possibility, better sensor monitoring and includes faster input/output design groups with the best signal/price values. This innovative control system also provides a solid foundation for increased cyber security, system integrated full redundancy, compactness, and easy handling. Patches and updates can be easily implemented online, without any interruption of plant operation and monitoring. The engineering and installation were executed by Siemens Zrt.'s team of experienced Hungarian engineers, while also onboarding dual MsC students in order to widen their knowledge as well. The engineering and installation of the new solution was carried out and cabinet tests were also conducted at Siemens Hungary's headquarters in order to help ensure fast reaction times and close collaboration with the customer. Contact Media Releations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (362 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power (GP) is a global pacesetter in energy, helping customers to meet the evolving demands of today’s industries and societies. GP comprises broad competencies across the entire energy value chain and offers a uniquely comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry and other energy intensive industries. Products, solutions, systems and services address the extraction, processing and the transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, power transmission and grid stability, as well as energy transition technologies including storage. With global headquarters in Houston in the U.S. and around 63,000 employees in over 80 countries, Siemens Gas and Power has a presence across the globe and is a leading innovator for the energy systems of today and tomorrow, as it has been for more than 150 years. Siemens AG (Berlin and Munich) is a global technology powerhouse that has stood for engineering excellence, innovation, quality, reliability and internationality for more than 170 years. The company is active around the globe, focusing on the areas of power generation and distribution, intelligent infrastructure for buildings and distributed energy systems, and automation and digitalization in the process and manufacturing industries. Through the separately managed company Siemens Mobility, a leading supplier of smart mobility solutions for rail and road transport, Siemens is shaping the world market for passenger and freight services. Due to its majority stakes in the publicly listed companies Siemens Healthineers AG and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, Siemens is also a world-leading supplier of medical technology and digital healthcare services as well as environmentally friendly solutions for onshore and offshore wind power generation. In fiscal 2019, which ended on September 30, 2019, Siemens generated revenue of €86.8 billion and net income of €5.6 billion. At the end of September 2019, the company had around 385,000 employees worldwide. Further information is available on the Internet www.siemens.com. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition July 25, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy wins contract for large-scale hydrogen project from German utility EWE June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply May 7, 2024 Berlin German businesses are taking a clear stand for diversity, openness and tolerance See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025