Marketing Consent Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Consent to receiving marketing information based on my personal interests Subject of the consent When I choose the option to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests, I am giving my consent to receive communications concerning Siemens Energy products and services from Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG and its affiliated companies (together “Siemens Energy”) via electronic message (e.g. e-mail) or telephone. Siemens Energy will determine my personal interests in its products and services by storing information about my visits to Siemens Energy websites with the help of cookies, which are small files containing certain information that are stored on my device. This information may include preferred language, viewed articles, downloaded documents, forms submitted, and date and time of access (“Usage Data”) and will be stored in a personal user profile. More information on the stored cookies can be found on the Legal Cookie Notice page. When receiving communications from Siemens Energy on my email Inbox, information on whether and when I opened a marketing e-mail will also be added to my personal profile stored in a marketing automation platform; Siemens Energy receives this information by calling up small images embedded in the e-mail (known as web beacons). Moreover, the following information that I provided directly on the Siemens Energy website or, if applicable, that is stored in Siemens Energy Customer Relationship Management systems will be added to my profile: Personal contact data (e.g. name, email, telephone number, title, function/role, country, city) Information about the company I work for (e.g. company name, address, industry and other publicly available information) The data described in the preceding paragraph will be used by Siemens Energy to send me marketing content (e.g. newsletters, invitations to events and trade fairs, satisfaction surveys, etc.) concerning products and services that are of interest to me. My data will be deleted from the marketing automation system of Siemens Energy if it is no longer needed for marketing purposes or if I have revoked my consent by unsubscribing to Siemens Energy communications. Data Transfer Siemens Energy AG may transfer my Data for the above-mentioned purposes to its Affiliated Companies. Furthermore, my Data may be transferred for sales purposes to Siemens Energy’s customer relationship-management systems. My Data will then be processed on the basis of Siemens Energy’s legitimate interest (Art. 6 I 1 f) GDPR) as described in the Consent Declaration Privacy Notice page . The provider of Siemens Energy’s marketing automation platform also has the technical ability to access my Data. Revocation and further information I have the right to revoke this consent at any time with effect for the future by clicking the link found on the Unsubscribe page and also at the bottom of the emails I receive from Siemens Energy. After revocation, I will no longer receive marketing content from Siemens Energy based on this consent. Apart from the possibility of revoking my consent at any time, I can technically exclude the processing of my usage data by deleting the cookies in the browsers used by me. By doing so, I may alternatively place an opt-out cookie which will prevent usage data from being processed in the future unless I provide renewed consent. Further information concerning the processing of my data can be found on the Data Privacy Notice page. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025