Order in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply Press release June 24, 2024 Berlin Saudi Arabia has a strategy to reach net zero by 2060 and is relying on modern, highly efficient gas-fired power plants in combination with CO 2 capture and storage, to significantly reduce its emissions. Siemens Energy is supplying key power plant technologies that will provide almost 4 gigawatts to the Kingdom, and in addition has also entered a long-term maintenance contract for 25 years for the two power plants, with a total value of USD 1.5 billion. Taiba 2 and Qassim 2, two of the world's largest, modern, and efficient combined-cycle power plants, will be built in the western and central regions of Saudi Arabia over the next few years. Siemens Energy´s gas turbines (HL-class), in combination with steam turbines and generators, will generate approx. 2,000 megawatts of electricity at each site. EPC and contracting partner for Siemens Energy is China Energy International Group. Karim Amin, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy and responsible for the Business Area of Gas Services: "Saudi Arabia is driving forward its vision 2030 to transform the Kingdom into a pioneering economic location. The new gas-fired power plants will provide reliable energy supply and contribute to the sustainable and future-oriented development of the country. Our Siemens Energy local service hub in Dammam will make an important contribution in expanding and localizing technology and competencies in the Kingdom.” The new power plants will provide additional energy for the country's growing population and booming economy and replace parts of Saudi Arabia's existing aging power plant fleet, some of which rely on oil as an energy source. The new plants will save up to 60 percent of CO 2 compared with oil-fueled power plants. They will also be compatible with the Kingdoms’ energy strategy which calls for the construction of CO 2 capture and storage facilities in the medium term, to enable a carbon-neutral energy supply. Taiba 2 and Qassim 2 will initially be connected to the grid in simple cycle mode in 2026 and will be permanently operated as a combined cycle power plant one year later. An HL-class turbine is loaded at the Berlin gas turbine plant A Siemens Energy worker loading a gas turbine Contact for journalists Sabine Sill Press Spokesperson Gas Services sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com +49 173 7196783 Contact for journalists Iain Packham Press Spokesperson Middle East, Africa iain.packham@siemens-energy.com +971 (0) 5499 34561 Download press release 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply June 24, 2024 PDF (99 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 99,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks December 15, 2022 Berlin First tests for Power-to-Hydrogen-to-Power HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully completed November 17, 2022 Munich/Stuttgart Prospects for using hydrogen in gas power plants are becoming tangible See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025