Compression Modernizations and Upgrades Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Compression modernizations and upgrades In today’s highly competitive market, efficiency is at the forefront of everyone’s minds.  Controlling costs, optimizing capacity, maintaining high reliability, and being able to deliver are especially important to your bottom line. We focus on compressor upgrades that provide mechanical and performance improvements. We understand this requires a considerable amount of engineering to define and execute on the solution. Whether it be total revamps of your compression system , improvements in dry gas seals , lube oil systems, rotors, or footprints, we deliver state-of-the-art designs that help you optimize your production facilities. Benefits of compressor upgrades Reducing maintenance costs, extending maintenance intervals through fewer leaks, improving reliability with the right valves, and lowering your emissions are a few examples of how we can make a big impact to your performance. Compressor modernization services can enhance your efficiency Explore how our advanced compressor modernization services can elevate your operational performance: Revamps of rotors and bundles Driver, coupling and gear changes Change from oil seals to dry gas seals Polymer labyrinths Footprint replacements of compressors and/or entire trains Casings and full complete duplicate unit orders Control upgrades Compressor upgrades that can make a difference to your reliability Enhance your system's performance with our comprehensive range of upgrade options: Sealing upgrades that affect performance - Halos Mechanical rotor upgrades - hydraulic thrust disc Coupling and bearings – Sleeve to tilt-pad, self-equalizing thrust Dry Gas Seal upgrades Fugitive emission solutions Work with us, the global technology leader and service provider, and we’ll keep your compression equipment updated with the latest modernizations and upgrades. Brownfield electrification - Let us help you decarbonize your assets Download flyer Upgrade your existing steam or gas turbine compression train with electric motors. By replacing mechanical drivers with electric motors, significant reductions in carbon emissions can be achieved. We have the expertise to offer you the most optimized configuration to match your current or future processes.  Typically, this includes inspection of your existing motor, gear box, couplings, control panel, lube oil unit, overall train control, and the electrical grid, for a complete and thorough examination of your compression train. When your compression equipment begins to age, an upgrade to a modern compressor provides greater efficiencies, reliability, and maintainability and an optimized carbon footprint. And once your new compressor or electric motor is up and running, our dedicated field service teams are available to maintain your compression trains and ensure your operations are running smoothly. If needed this will include remote diagnostic services to monitor critical parameters and potential predictive maintenance to increase the lifetime of your compressor. Make the switch to a more sustainable future with Siemens Energy. Contact us today to learn more about our experience to help you on your journey. myAdvisor - Modernizations and upgrades for your rotating equipment myadvisor is an online service that provides digital support for our modernization and upgrade products. By inputting key machine information such as 'Machine Type', 'Industry', 'Operational Profile' and 'Year of Installation, myAdvisor can identify potential improvements specific to your rotating equipment. Any potential improvement possibilities that are highly recommended for your equipment are clearly displayed. Additional recommended offerings can be viewed and displayed by your operational priorities. Visit myAdvisor Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) for turbocompressors Our Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) satisfies the increasing requirements placed on turbocompressors by various industries and applications. We offer recommendations and advise you on optimizing equipment operation, preventing operational disturbances and unplanned outages, and performing preventive maintenance. Download flyer Worldwide service Discover the exceptional capabilities and flexible service solutions provided by our compression teams worldwide. Compressor and gas engine services for North America Rotating equipment services in Tribogna, Italy Latest articles Modernization options for turbocompressors Weighing modernization options for legacy turbocompressors Read more Leveraging remote diagnostic services in compressors RDS to detect performance degradation in variable-speed centrifugal compressors Read more Partners in training Learning the ins and outs..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on Compressor modernizations and upgrades How can I increase the capacity of my compressor? To increase the capacity of your compressor, you can: Install a higher capacity aerodynamic revamp that reuses the same casing. Install a modern high efficiency aerodynamic revamp that will reduce power and allow for additional capacity gain. Install a replacement footprint compressor with higher capacity internals. Install a modern high efficiency aerodynamic footprint compressor that will reduce power and allow for additional capacity gain. Increase the maximum continuous speed of the compressor via driver speed increase. How can I increase my compressor power? To increase the power of your compressor, you can: Uprate the driver power limit. Replace the existing driver with a higher power driver. Replace compressor aerodynamics (revamp/ re-aero) with modern high efficiency aerodynamics which will lower power usage and create additional power margin to existing driver limit. Replace compressor with modern high efficiency footprint compressor which will lower power usage and create additional power margin to existing driver limit. How do I get more pressure out of my compressor? To achieve more pressure from your compressor, you can: Install modern high head aerodynamics which revamp to increase pressure rise. Add additional compression stages to the existing unit via aerodynamic revamp. Replace existing compressor with a footprint compressor that creates additional pressure rise. Increase maximum continuous speed of compressor/driver. What happens if you oversize a compressor? Oversizing a compressor can lead to several issues: Oversized compressors can lead to recycled flow which results in wasted power. Improperly protected compressors that are oversized can result in compressor surge which likely will damage the compressor. Oversized compressors can result in insufficient power for desired operating condition(s). Oversized compressors may operate at too slow of a speed which can result in vibration due to operation too close to a critical speed. Oversized compressors may require surge control valve replacement. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025