SIPAPER Automation Solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SIPAPER automation solutions Intelligently tackling market challenges with optimized processes and improved quality The cost pressures, increased quality requirements, environmental regulations, lower margins, and intense competition in the fiber industry call for intelligent solutions in the area of automation. Our custom-built SIPAPER automation solutions are key to meeting these market challenges. They provide maximum data transparency throughout the entire production process as well as systematic quality assurance and simple operation. What’s more, they're the very foundation for the digital enterprise – for a faster, more flexible, and more intelligent production despite the rapidly changing paper market. Contact us Optimize processes and improve quality with intelligent automation The seamless integration of individual products is the special strength of the SIPAPER family: for example, when it comes to optimizing process automation and monitoring and improving the quality of the products. With QCS APL, APC, and DCS APL, SIPAPER provides you with solutions that are a perfect fit for your company. Intelligent and digital automation solutions for the fiber industry From quality management and process control to process automation and linking automation with business systems, with SIPAPER automation solutions you'll improve the quality of your pulp and paper products while also optimizing your process efficiency and productivity. SIPAPER QCS APL allows systematic quality assurance directly at your paper machine. With SIPAPER APC, you'll benefit from a model-based open- and closed-loop control of your processes. SIPAPER DCS APL offers you an integrated automation system from the field to the ERP level. And SIPAPER IT MIS gives you a transparent overview of your production process in real time, making your business decisions much easier. And with SIPAPER automation solutions, you'll create a consistent data flow that you can turn into higher plant availability and lower operation and maintenance costs. Take the first step toward digitalization SIPAPER automation systems are ready for digitalization. You can simulate a virtual twin of your plant based on a consistent uniform data model, throughout all project phases, even before commissioning. This allows you to optimize, refine, and even duplicate as needed with no risk. What’s more: SIPAPER DCS APL with SIMIT simulation software increases engineering quality and accelerates commissioning and the start-up phase thanks to flexible design simulation. Quality parameters are achieved faster after start-up or a change of grade. Optimized process management also ensures lasting product improvement and helps homogenize the fibrous material. SIPAPER APC The software for process management in paper production To manufacture high-quality products while keeping costs for raw materials, energy, and process material to a minimum, an optimized process management across the entire operation of paper production is needed. SIPAPER APC (advanced process control) offers you an integrated software solution for model-based open- and closed-loop process management and control – tailored to the fiber industry and customized to your plant conditions. SIPAPER APC uses libraries and modules proven in industrial applications: for example, for optimization, neural networks, and robust control. The solution can be ideally integrated in plants with SIPAPER DCS but can also be linked to other existing process control systems. Your advantages Process optimization through cost-optimized operating points in all units Increased quality and homogenization of the fibrous material Lasting improvements to the process and greater environmental compatibility Proven components, optimal availability Global service from a single source of supply over the entire lifecycle SIPAPER APC – advanced process control for the fiber industry SIPAPER DCS APL Integral automation solutions instead of costly system diversity Using different systems in the automation architecture creates interface problems as well as increased training, maintenance, and operating costs. To avoid this, you have to move away from island solutions toward integrated automation on a standard system platform. Our decentralized control system SIPAPER DCS APL offers you a scalable, uniform, integrated automation system from the field level all the way to the ERP level. SIPAPER DCS APL is based on SIMATIC PCS 7, the foremost automation system on the global market, and is supplemented by ready-made, coordinated software modules that we developed specifically for the pulp and paper industry alongside our customers. Using identical components and well-thought-out solutions for the drive, automation, and quality systems facilitates the complete integration of all parts. And the incorporation of all levels from the field to production control provides unprecedented data transparency and diagnostics options that result in optimized processes and reduced downtime. Your advantages Uniform automation solution for all technical systems based on the world's leading components Increased efficiency and competitiveness Ready for digitalization with COMOS; future viability and investment security Global support throughout the entire lifecycle Proven components, optimal availability SIPAPER DCS APL – integrated automation on a standard system platform Innovative services for the digital future of industry Our Industry Services help make your machines and plants more profitable and efficient throughout their entire lifecycle, and allow you to exploit the opportunities of digitalization while reducing your total cost of ownership. Industry services More productivity – thanks to perfectly tailored solutions With our solutions we help to ensure success in the pulp and paper industry – worldwide. Greenpac Mill, Niagara Falls, New York Almost 95% recycled goods can be turned into newer paperboard type material. 1,500 tons of linerboard are produced a day, the equivalent of some 540,000 tons a year. 50% more energy savings through new technology. Optimize processes and improve quality with intelligent automation You want to improve your processes and access plant-information twenty-four/seven? Let our fiber industry experts help you to find the optimal solution for your specific requirements. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025