Inclusion & Diversity Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Diversity is a fact, inclusion is a choice - choose inclusion It takes minds from all segments of society to shape the energy of tomorrow. Siemens Energy believes inclusion and diversity creates more opportunity for success It doesn’t matter the gender, age, ethnic background, sexual orientation, or disability - everyone has an equal part to play in energizing society . Here, more than 96,000 employees worldwide join forces with welcoming colleagues who encourage equality and belonging, to passionately and energetically pursue a shared goal : to shape the energy systems of the future. Meet Team Purple At Siemens Energy we embrace inclusion and diversity Inclusion and diversity policy statement PDF (608 KB) Download We incorporate inclusion and diversity into every aspect of our operations through a framework centered around four strategic focus areas: equity, belonging, accountable leaders, and society and partnerships. Equity Creating a better place to work for women We believe that diverse gender representation fosters a variety of perspectives and promotes innovation , making it a vital factor in establishing a fair and inclusive work environment. This is why we prioritize supporting gender equity by enhancing the representation of women at all levels of the company and offering programs for female development, flexible work opportunities, and additional resources. Siemens Energy aims to reach a share of 25% women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2025 , and a share of 30% women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2030 . In fiscal year 2023 , the share of women in top leadership positions increased to 28% . Download report Equal Pay for Equal Work We have an ongoing commitment to pay equity. We are dedicated to establishing equal pay for all employees , - no matter the ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, sexual orientation, gender identity, expression and sex characteristics, or worldview - furthering our progress towards comprehensive workplace equality. We have recently earned the Fair Pay Innovation Lab (FPI) certification , marking a key achievement in our ongoing commitment to pay equity. This recognition underscores our dedication to establishing equal pay for all employees, furthering our progress towards comprehensive workplace equality. Siemens Energy, in close collaboration with the University of Goettingen, received the prestigious GEO Award in April 2024 for our innovative and scientific approach to promoting workplace fairness and equality and addressing the Gender Pay Gap. Self-identification provides valuable insights into the makeup of our business. In January 2024, our company took a decisive step to enhance our commitment to inclusivity for all groups represented at Siemens Energy by launching a voluntary and anonymous Self-IDentification survey. This move was aimed at gathering essential demographic and diversity data about our workforce, a critical measure for informed decision-making and Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) strategy development. The initiative saw participation from more than 20,000 employees in 47 countries across Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America and South America, who contributed insights important for tailoring our diversity andinclusion efforts to ensure that each of our identities are respected and we can all feel safe at work. We're committed to supporting our employees and their families Life is unpredictable and full of changes. Whether welcoming a new child through birth, adoption, or fostering, or facing the sorrow of a loss, we’re here as a company to ensure that you have the time you need to focus on what truly matters. Our paid leave benefits are designed to provide peace of mind to our employees during significant life events. Belonging Diverse perspectives are needed to address the complex challenges the energy transition brings Our various employee networks across our organization build inclusive communities and foster allyship . This ignites our innovation potential, paves our way toward a sustainable future and helps us transform ourselves and our customers. Gender & Allies We offer networks for development and coaching of our female employees. Ethnicity & Cultural Heritage & Allies Our ethnicity networks across the globe develop and leverage the talents of our diverse employees at all levels of the organization. LGBTQIA+ & Allies We promote the inclusion, fellowship, well-being, engagement and empowerment of LGBTQIA+ employees and their allies. Disability & Allies Our networks foster an environment of inclusion, awareness, understanding, and support of our employees with differing abilities. We're transforming through belonging. Accountable Leaders “ When we talk about accountable leaders, we're focusing on leaders who not only take responsibility but also actively and openly advocate for diversity, equity, and inclusion. These leaders set the standard, both inside our organization and in the public eye, ensuring that our commitment to these values is not just spoken, but demonstrated through actions and decisions. Maria Ferraro Every day, people are treated less favorably or face discrimination because of their ethnicity, gender, religion or ideology, disability, age, or sexual identity. This has to change. The world needs people who do not look the other way when they see or hear racism and discrimination. See what our employees, their families and friends have to say about the important role allyship played in their lives. We can all do a great deal in our everyday lives and at work to make our society more supportive, open, and tolerant. Act, and become an ally. Let's make tomorrow different today. Our employees shared their allyship stories. How Lars helped Udoka feel welcome in Germany How Peter helped Vurtricia find her voice How Johannes supports Sarah for who she is Society and Partnerships We work together, internally and externally, with customers and partners to support us in becoming more diverse and inclusive. We are proud to support: Catalyst – Workplaces That Work for Women The Hawthorn Club – For Executive Women in the Energy Industry ILO Global Business and Disability Network The Supporters – Partnership for Global LGBTIQ+ Equality Women's Empowerment Principles Want to join the Siemens Energy team? Have a look at our job offers Our workplace environment is open to everybody regardless of their ethnic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression.  All of our opportunities are posted in an open job portal, and people with different skills, abilities and ideas have an equal chance. View jobs Here are the frequently asked questions about applying to and working at Siemens Energy Thriving environment FAQs What is Siemens Energy’s People Agenda? Our People Agenda is how we build our people and culture. We want our people and culture to be the differentiator with our customers, investors, suppliers, partners, employees, and society. Our People Agenda, including its programs and strategic initiatives, is founded on three main building blocks: “Thriving environment,” “Game-changing leaders,” and “Vibrant workforce.” What does "Thriving Environment" mean? “Thriving environment” refers to creating an environment for people to be self-directed, to have responsibility, and find meaning in their work. We guide this by setting standards through our Inclusion and Diversity Framework, applying new ways of working, and establishing cross-organizational community networks. What is Siemens Energy’s policy toward Diversity, Equity and Inclusion? At Siemens Energy, we believe inclusion and diversity creates more opportunity for success. In our view, everyone - no matter the ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, sexual orientation, gender identity, expression and sex characteristics, or worldview - has an equal part to play in energizing society. We use “diversity” to describe our commitment to recognizing and respecting the differences between people. We use “equity” to recognize the unique needs of each individual or group with the aim of removing barriers and creating opportunities under which everyone can participate on equal terms. We use “inclusion” to describe our commitment to being an open and inclusive company, striving to create safe, welcoming workplaces with a culture that encourages equality and belonging. Does Siemens Energy provide flexible working opportunities? #BetterTogether is our flexible working model that focuses on outcomes and performance. We not only want to work better together with our customers and external stakeholders but also internally with our colleagues. #BetterTogether is built on the premise that each leader defines the best possible balance between working remotely and onsite with their team, keeping in mind what's beneficial for the business, the team, and each individual. #BetterTogether also aims to improve employee engagement and well-being by allowing greater flexibility. Gender FAQs Why is it important for Siemens Energy to focus on gender? We believe diverse gender representation offers diversity of thought and enhanced innovation, and is a crucial element in creating a fair and inclusive work environment. That’s why we focus on supporting gender equity through increasing women representation across all levels of the company, policy development, and transparency. Does Siemens Energy publicly share targets to increase the representation of women? Siemens Energy aims to reach a share of 25% women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2025, and a share of 30% women in top leadership positions by September 30, 2030. We set gender targets to accelerate the pace of chance and we’ve seen an increase in the share of women year on year as a result. Whilst the numbers can help maintain our focus, we know that what’s really important is ensuring we have the right interventions in place to ensure that Siemens Energy is a place where everyone can thrive. Do gender targets validate or violate meritocracy? Gender targets are essential for changing perspectives and ensuring we select the best people for our company. Targets provide a starting point by ensuring diverse representation, paving the way for a merit-based system that evaluates individuals solely on their qualifications and skills. Equality is about giving equal opportunities. Meritocracy is about freedom of choice based on the assumption that everyone, regardless of gender, has the same opportunities. How does Siemens Energy address equal pay? Siemens Energy is committed to provide “equal pay for equal work”. Our wide approach to identify gender differences in pay goes beyond regulatory requirements and market standards and delivers more meaningful results by calculating both the “unadjusted” and “adjusted pay gap”. Furthermore, we have integrated gender pay gap-related information into our global merit process by providing managers with vital data empowering them to proactively address any pay disparities and make better, fair and unbiased pay decisions. Does Siemens Energy have a gender network? Siemens Energy has a global Gender & Allies network with representation in Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America that any employee can join. The network brings together employees from various backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, creating a vibrant community where every voice is heard and valued. The group not only offers a supportive network for members but also serves as a dynamic forum for learning, personal growth, advocacy and allyship. Does Siemens Energy have leadership commitment and support for gender equality? Siemens Energy is an official supporter for the UN Women Empowerment Principles. Our Board Members and leadership community publicly express their support to gender equality and they actively participate in webinars, coffee talks and other events. How does Siemens Energy address sexual harassment and discrimination on the basis of sex, gender and gender identity? Siemens Energy does not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups. Our speak-up culture encourages employees to voice their concerns, ideas, and experiences without fear of retaliation, particularly when facing discrimination.  Anyone can raise their concerns anonymously or by making their identity known using our two Whistleblower Channels: “Speak Up” & Ombudsperson – 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. These channels are available for Siemens Energy employees and external parties. In addition, employees can report suspected misconduct directly to the Managing Board, manager, or colleagues in the Human Resources or Compliance Organization, especially the responsible Compliance Officer. What support does Siemens Energy offer to caregivers? We are gradually introducing a policy that provides paid leave benefits to our employees during significant life events including... 14 weeks of paid leave for the primary caregiver. 2 additional weeks for the secondary caregiver. Up to 5 days for bereavement leave, depending on the loss, to ensure you have time to grieve. 5 days for family care leave, for a close family member In case local standards (law, company policy, collective agreement) are more generous than the benefits set by the global policy, the local standards will apply. LGBTQIA+ FAQs Does Siemens Energy have a Pride network? Siemens Energy has a global Pride & Allies network with representation in Europe, North America and South America that any employee can join. The network promotes the inclusion, fellowship, and empowerment of LGBTQIA+ employees and their allies and leads initiatives to improve the engagement and visibility of the community. After joining this network, employees gain access to community members and allies who can provide support, guidance, and opportunities for engagement in the network’s activities. Does Siemens Energy have leadership commitment and support for the rights of LGBTIQ+ people? Siemens Energy is an official supporter for the UN Standards of Conduct for Business Tackling Discrimination against LGBTQIA+ People. Our Board Members and leadership community publicly express their support and they actively participate in webinars, coffee talks and other events. Are Siemens Energy’s policies LGBTQIA+ inclusive? We are making progress toward truly being a company where everyone feels they belong.  Some examples are: Our Life Event Policy provides paid leave for relevant life events and recognizes the diverse family structures within our workforce, including legally recognized partnerships, same -sex couples and single parents. Our principles of equal opportunity and equal treatment and no discrimination explicitly include sexual orientation and gender. We educate and raise awareness of microaggressions, stereotypes and unconscious bias faced by LGBTQIA+ people. We enable use of pronouns in MS Teams. Will I be supported if I experience discrimination or harassments because of my sexual orientation, gender identity or expression? Siemens Energy does not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups. Our speak-up culture encourages employees to voice their concerns, ideas, and experiences without fear of retaliation, particularly when facing discrimination.  Anyone can raise their concerns anonymously or by making their identity known using our two Whistleblower Channels: “Speak Up” & Ombudsperson – 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. These channels are available for Siemens Energy employees and external parties. In addition, employees can report suspected misconduct directly to the Managing Board, manager, or colleagues in the Human Resources or Compliance Organization, especially the responsible Compliance Officer. Does Siemens Energy celebrate Pride, IDAHOBIT and other events related to LGBTQIA+? We honor awareness days like IDAHOBIT in May and Pride in June to remind us of the safe, inclusive work environment we strive to create every day. Every year, during the month of June, the LGBTQIA+ community celebrates in a few different ways. These celebrations play a crucial role in fostering deep connections among us and provide a sense of belonging and a means to express our core values. Disability FAQs Does Siemens Energy have a disability network? Siemens Energy has a global Disability & Allies network with representation in Europe, Middle East, North America and South America that any employee can join. The network fosters an environment of inclusion, awareness, understanding, and support of our employees with differing abilities. Do you have leadership commitment and support for people with a disability? Siemens Energy is an official member of the International Labor Organization Global Business Disability Network. Our Board Members and leadership community publicly express their support and they actively participate in webinars, coffee talks and other events in support of an inclusive environment where our colleagues with a disability can thrive. What support is available for employees with a disability at Siemens Energy? Your line manager and your local EHS, HR, IT or Real Estate contact will work with you to understand what reasonable adjustments can be provided to suit your accessibility requirements. This may include the provision of assistive technology, ergonomic equipment, changes in your working environment, flexible work arrangements, and modifications to your workstation, subject to business needs. We provide accessibility in standard tools. Most of the features are included as part of the basic infrastructure of Microsoft and Apple products provided today.. We also offer a wide range of health management programs that focus on healthy working and healthy employees – reflecting local needs and conditions. These include training courses on topics such as exercise, nutrition, stress, physical well-being, psychological health, and work-life balance. Employees can use a mental health app that has been recently acquired, and they have at their disposal a specific SharePoint and Viva Engage community for additional support. Employees also have the support of our Disability & Allies Network. The group not only offers a supportive network for members but also serves as a dynamic forum for learning, personal growth, advocacy and allyship. Will I be supported if I experience discrimination or harassments because of my disability condition? Siemens Energy does not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups. Our speak-up culture encourages employees to voice their concerns, ideas, and experiences without fear of retaliation, particularly when facing discrimination.  Anyone can raise their concerns anonymously or by making their identity known using our two Whistleblower Channels: “Speak Up” & Ombudsperson – 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. These channels are available for Siemens Energy employees and external parties. In addition, employees can report suspected misconduct directly to the Managing Board, manager, or colleagues in the Human Resources or Compliance Organization, especially the responsible Compliance Officer. Does Siemens Energy offer support if I am a caregiver for a person with a disability? Siemens Energy is gradually introducing 5 paid working days per year as Family Care Leave for employees supporting a family member with serious medical needs. However, if the local requirements (e.g. legislation, company policy, union agreements) are more beneficial to the employee, then the local requirements shall prevail. Does Siemens Energy celebrate International Day of Persons with Disabilities? We honor awareness days like International Day of Persons with Disabilities, to remind us of the safe, inclusive work environment we strive to create every day. Every year, during the month of December, the Disability Network organizes awareness sessions, trainings, educational panels, and other events. These celebrations play a crucial role in fostering deep connections among us and provide a sense of belonging and a means to express our core values. Ethnicity FAQs Does Siemens Energy have an ethnicity network? Siemens Energy has a global Ethnicity & Cultural Heritage & Allies network with regional representation in Asia, Europe, North America and South America that any employee can join. The network also has specific regional sub-charters such as ACE (Asian Culture Exchange), AMIGOS (Hispanic Community), and BEC (Black Employee Community) in the US. The network fosters an environment of inclusion, awareness, understanding, and provides opportunities to develop and leverage the talents of its members. Does Siemens Energy have leadership commitment and support for people with diverse cultural backgrounds? Our Board Members and leadership community publicly express their support and they actively participate in events and other activities in support of people with diverse cultural backgrounds and ethnicities. Will I be supported if I experience discrimination or harassment? Siemens Energy does not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or groups. Our speak-up culture encourages employees to voice their concerns, ideas, and experiences without fear of retaliation, particularly when facing discrimination.  Anyone can raise their concerns anonymously or by making their identity known using our two Whistleblower Channels: “Speak Up” & Ombudsperson – 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. These channels are available for Siemens Energy employees and external parties. In addition, employees can report suspected misconduct directly to the Managing Board, manager, or colleagues in the Human Resources or Compliance Organization, especially the responsible Compliance Officer. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025