Calculating CO2 Emissions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 4, 2023 3 min read We do the math for sustainability Sustainability Stories Just how much CO2 does a turbine emit over its lifetime? In an energy market increasingly turning toward renewable solutions, it is a question we here at Siemens Energy face every day. In calculating the carbon footprint of our products, we take a thorough and transparent approach. “ That a customer buys an H2-ready gas turbine is no evidence it will really run on green hydrogen. Judith Osthues Corporate Sustainability Professional, Siemens Energy Today, our company’s GHG emissions total around 1.1 billion tons across all scopes. More than 99 percent come from scope 3 downstream – the emissions from our products like gas turbines in the hands of our customers over their entire lifetime. By 2030, we want to reduce these emissions by 28 percent, compared to 2019, in order to keep in line with a pathway well below 2 °C – the goal adopted in the Paris Agreement. Beyond that we aspire to reach net zero across the value chain in line with a 1.5°C pathway in the long-term. Currently, most of our turbines are still powered by natural gas, which explains our still high carbon footprint. In the future, however, we expect that more and more clean hydrogen will be added, or biogas will be used. But it is difficult to predict how clients will use our gas turbines. Will they turn to low carbonfuels, and if so, when? Which of the alternative fuel solutions will materialize on a major scale? Watch the video: Our approach to calculating Scope 3 emissions We report according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) – the widely accepted accounting standard for greenhouse gas emissions in the industry. The math is simple enough, for example, here is a sample formula for a large gas turbine. 475MW x 5500h x  (232gCO2/kWh)/(62%)  x 27 years = 26Mt But in the end, even the GHGP leaves room for interpretation in calculating emissions, which is why we can hardly compare our own footprint with that of our competitors. For instance, our Corporate Sustainability Professional, Judith Osthues, points out that “the fact that a customer buys an H2-ready gas turbine is no evidence that it will really run on green hydrogen” – which is why we have opted to consider H 2 -co-firing only if our customers share a specific schedule and blend percentage for the use of green hydrogen. We can only estimate what happens in reality. The best we can do is keep checking the processes and updating our data each year: Is it all still correct? Calculating “use of sold product” emissions requires that we consider how customers actually use our products, including H2-ready gas turbines. How our products are used, such as this SGT5-4000F gas turbine, accounts for 99 percent of our greenhouse gas emissions. Our principles: transparency and credibility The principles we use to guide us are clear: transparency, credibility and a rather conservative perspective. Many countries, including our most relevant customer markets, have committed to a net zero economy by 2050, and a net zero electricity system even earlier. This is why we decided to include this change in our calculations for the first time and assume that the turbines we sell now will not run on unabated fossil fuels after 2050. Gas turbines will be around for a long time, if not as primary sources of power generation than as peaker plant solutions to support renewable energy. In this scenario, a gas-fired plant only goes online to stabilize the grid when there is not enough wind and sun to meet a community’s energy demand. Thus, it is an enabler of the energy transition and can even be operated in a net zero world using clean fuels or by using carbon capture and storage (CCUS). Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress towards our sustainability targets and continue to improve our sustainability performance. Learn more Combined video and picture credits: Frank Peterschröder, Siemens Energy Read more April 10, 2025 How to optimize the aluminum supply chain network? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read Inclusion and diversity lead to more innovative solutions See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025