With the wind at our backs: how we’re expanding renewable energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Keeping 1.5° Celsius in reach requires a huge rise in renewables Our products and services are supporting the drive to more sustainable energy sources The world needs more renewables As an industry, we have already done much to meet the global demand for greener energy. Wind energy capacity worldwide now exceeds one terawatt: a significant milestone. However, the urgency of the climate crisis means we need to go further and faster. The Global Wind Energy Council projects that 670GW of new wind energy capacity will be added over the next five years, representing an average of annual installations of 134GW (547GW onshore, 123GW offshore). Making progress with our customers Since 1998, we’ve installed around 117GW of renewable energy capacity worldwide – and in doing so, we’ve enabled our customers to reduce their carbon footprint by approximately 329 million tons per year. Among the wind power projects planned for the near future is East Anglia 3 offshore wind project, off England’s east coast, in partnership with ScottishPower Renewables.  Once complete, the project will provide clean electricity to 1.3million homes. But such gains can only be achieved if the framework conditions are right, regulatory barriers are lowered, and in particular, access to enormous quantities of materials is guaranteed. „The road ahead for the entire wind industry is long. But we can – and we will – walk it to create a more sustainable future.” Vinod Philip, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG, Executive Vice President Wind Power Specific challenges and solutions Never before has the development of wind energy been so dynamic. Never before have so many projects been put out to tender. Despite this, European wind turbine manufacturers are facing a huge challenge. Cost pressures, high prices for steel, and ever-faster development cycles are creating a perfect storm for the wind industry. And this, despite the fact that the wind industry plays an essential role in ensuring clean energy security. It should therefore be regarded as a strategic industry for ensuring Europe’s energy resilience. Five points are crucial – which can also be applied outside  Europe: 1. Speed up permitting procedures for renewable projects: 80 GW of wind projects await approval in Europe. It is now in the hands of the member states to adopt, as soon as possible, streamlined permitting procedures for renewable energy projects and the necessary grid infrastructure across Europe. Accelerating the approval of the existing pipeline of projects will boost economic activity, strengthen supply chains, and provide a solid foundation for investment in new manufacturing facilities that are consistent with climate goals. And speedy procedures will ultimately help achieve the necessary 30 GW per year increase, rather than the originally planned 16 GW. 2. Recognize and actively support the value of European wind manufacturers: Wind technology combats climate change, creates wealth, and increases energy security. Much more attention must be given to these benefits in auctions, as proposed in the Net Zero Industry Act. By the end of 2023, mandatory non-price criteria should be the norm in every auction, both as pre-qualification as well as qualification criteria. And the value we bring, comes at a cost. 3. Remove additional burdens on the industry, avoid race-to-the-bottom competition: Inflation adjustment mechanisms and a clear end to negative bidding are urgently needed. The high level of inflation in prices of raw materials, logistics, and other costs have increased the price of wind turbines by up to 40 percent over the past two years. As a result, the auctions urgently need an inflation adjustment. Indexing the prices paid for wind energy – as some member states are doing – is a good approach, but it is not enough. Additionally, we also call  for a clear end of negative biddings in auctions: these costs will be shifted to the supply chain and, ultimately, also to consumers. 4. Secure funding and financing for robust supply chains: This is essential for Europe's competitiveness and for the success of the energy transition. The European wind industry is not financially strong enough to build the capacity required to meet our climate targets. That is why we urgently need more flexibility in government support. This includes significantly higher co-financing rates for activities like expanding existing plants. In addition, neither industrial champions nor small or medium-sized enterprises have sufficient access to financial guarantees and programs e.g. by the European Investment Bank (EIB) will be required if we want to scale the number of projects up fast. 5. Ensure fair competition and trade agreements to lead the global climate agenda and secure strategic interests: It is important to defend fair competition on the basis of three pillars: First, enable the full use of European trade defense instruments to ensure a level playing field in the market and access to key sources. Second, enhance the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development toolbox or the Global Gateway initiative by tying aid to EU industrial policy objectives. Third, enter into targeted bilateral trade partnerships to accelerate the uptake of clean technologies and strengthen the resilience of their supply chains. This should include an alignment of standards and regulations. Renewables rising in the East Together with our partners, Siemens Gamesa has delivered the Formosa 2 project in Taiwan – a 47-turbine wind farm with a total capacity of 376MW.  This is enough to supply 380,000 households with clean electricity, with annual CO 2 savings of over 1.3m tons. Read more Connecting offshore wind power to the grid The key to the efficiency of offshore wind farms lies in the overall design of the wind farm, from the turbine that generates the electricity, to the cables that transmit the power, to the onshore and offshore substations that process and stabilize the power fed into the grid. Read more Energy storage as diverse as their applications Whether milliseconds or weeks, whether small or large amounts of energy. We offer various technologies for storing energy. Read more Have you read? April 14, 2023 5 min read Renewable hydrogen for Germany’s heavy industry November 14, 2022 9 min read Haru Oni: eFuel plant of the future Go to story hub Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025