Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa April 2, 2024 Dubai Siemens Energy has appointed Dietmar Siersdorfer as the Managing Director for Africa, as of April 1, 2024, replacing Nadja Haakansson who leaves the company for another position. The appointment expands his role beyond his current position as Managing Director for the Middle East. As part of his appointment to lead a combined Middle East and Africa region, Dietmar Siersdorfer will seek to increase collaboration and the sharing of best practices, to realize synergies and accelerate energy transition in both regions. "With abundant natural resources, a growing population, and rising energy demand, Africa has huge potential to drive energy transition, not just across the continent but also around the world,” said Dietmar Siersdorfer. “By aligning our efforts across the Middle East and Africa, we can more effectively address the unique energy challenges they face, from enhancing energy access to advancing sustainable development. There are significant benefits of harnessing synergies and similarities between these regions to drive innovation, efficiency, and growth for Siemens Energy and our partners." Dietmar Siersdorfer has been with Siemens since 1987 and has played a critical role in advancing Siemens Energy’s strategic initiatives across the Middle East since the company's spin-off from Siemens in May 2020. Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director Middle East and Africa, Siemens Energy Contact Iain Packham iain.packham@siemens-energy.com +971 (0)54993 4561 Download Press Release Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa April 2, 2024 PDF (82 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 97,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023. Read more Read less Read more March 12, 2025 Dammam Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025