Expert I&C maintenance services for reliable energy operations Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications System expert services for power generation When seamless availability is the goal, when a high level of expertise is required, when every second counts – then our remote expert services are the perfect choice. Seamless availability of your power plant The REC (Remote Expert Center) offers excellent remote services for distributed control systems (DCS) for power generation. It is at the heart of our remote expert services. A single point of contact that enables distributed control system (DCS) operators to get all the help they need to overcome availability challenges at their power plants. With a whole suite of real-time online remote service tools that provide secure connections to our customers’ instrumentation and controls (I&C) and electrical systems, our REC team can help with just about anything involving administration, diagnosis, maintenance, engineering, and monitoring. More than 50 experienced experts equipped with the latest data communication systems and direct access to the engineering data of your plant are ready in our RECs to solve every challenge. Benefit from the advantages of our five state-of-the-art global remote expert centers, serving the control systems of more than 1,200 plants worldwide. The remote expert support you can rely on is available 24/7 every day of the year. Do you want to learn more about our remote expert services? Contact us! Preventive, reactive, and cybersecurity services With our remote expert services, we focus on ensuring that your plant is fully available, continuously producing and securely protected from digital threats. With excellent combination of preventive, reactive, and cybersecurity services, our remote expert services step in to prevent and resolve faults in instrumentation and distributed control systems via remote maintenance. Preventive services Regular maintenance work is vital if you want to reduce unplanned and costly downtime. The preventive REC services comprise scheduled tasks to check the system status as well as the patch status of the control system and scheduled software maintenance. Our preventive services include ICMA system check ICMA tailored patch information (TPI) ICMA cyber inspection REC hotline REC system check Reactive services Sometimes things have to happen quickly. Even the most reliable I&C system is not completely immune to faults. When customers need immediate assistance, they can count on, our reactive maintenance team is ready – always on standby, available and accessible 24/7. Our reactive services include Hotline DCS & electrical Hotline D3000, VIB3000, CM 500 Hotline security Remote support for engineering and maintenance (helpline) On-call service Cybersecurity services Malware, viruses or cyber-attacks – all of them may jeopardize availability. Cybersecurity is becoming an increasingly crucial part of future-proofing a power plant. The cSOC (Cyber Security Operations Center) is part of the REC and offers tailored services in three broad areas of activity. Our cybersecurity services include Cyber inspection (ICMA) Cyber hotline Incident response Remote expert service around the world The global network of RECs includes central and regional centers to ensure that technical and appropriate language skills and local knowledge are always available. The spread across the world enables us to provide comprehensive 24/7 online support for all managed functions related to I&C and electricals. 5 remote expert centers for... > 1,300 power plant units in... > 70 countries across the world with... 24 / 7 / 365 availability. Combining cybersecurity and professional I&C support As the risk of cyberattacks on critical infrastructure increases, so do the requirements for energy companies. Specific know-how on increasingly complex plant technologies and cybersecurity is required. In most cases, however, operators do not have local access to the necessary level of expertise. At Siemens Energy and in the Remote Expert Center, we take care of your specific cybersecurity requirements. Because we know that cybersecurity is becoming a core issue for your success. The Cyber Security Operations Center (cSOC) as part of the Remote Expert Center (REC) bridges IT and OT worlds With our cSOC solution we combine the best of two worlds – IT and OT: Cybersecurity expertise and know-how on control system and electrical components. Cyber security expertise is embedded within the REC to offer customers a comprehensive Cyber Security Operations Center (cSOC). This brings together expertise on a higher and deeper level than can feasibly be provided by individual power generation business. Want to know even more? Download our cSOC white paper PDF (2 MB) Further offers and products Power Academy Customer Energy Portal The Power Academy is the hub of all controls and electrical related trainings within Siemens Energy. Offering a broad variety from classroom trainings to on-site and virtual reality (VR) trainings, you can decide what best fits your business needs. Learn more The Customer Energy Portal is your one-stop source for information about your Siemens Energy portfolio. It offers access to a multitude of support tools in an always available digital platform. It is a secure online platform, that gives you 24/7 access to sites specific up-to-date information. Learn more Contact us! At Siemens Energy, we built our Services with a focus on minimizing downtimes while maximizing performance, cut costs, and commitment to continuous improvement. We provide a comprehensive service for instrumentation, power plant automation and electrical systems. With our experience to support power plants from cradle to grave, we offer intelligent service concepts for plant maintenance throughout the entire lifecycle. Curious? Contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Control system services Learn more Omnivise T3000 Learn more I&C Monitors and Advisors Learn more Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations See all stories Read more July 21, 2022 Washington, DC Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure May 30, 2022 Munich From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025