SVC PLUS Frequency Stabilizer Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM) As the infeed of power from renewable sources continuously replaces conventional synchronous power generation, the grid frequency is getting more sensitive due to the reduced amount of rotating machines. Now grid operators are faced with the challenge to provide sufficient system inertia of synchronous generators with high rotating masses to stabilize the grid. A SVC PLUS FS® (frequency stabilizer) can solve this challenge as it is able to emulating system inertia by boosting high active power into the grid when needed. In addition it offers voltage support by means of reactive power compensation. Arrange a consultation Frequency and voltage support for dynamic grid stability By using a bulk number of supercapacitors, the new SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM) is a cost-efficient, compact solution that can emulate system inertia by boosting high active power into the grid when needed. It also offers voltage support by means of reactive power compensation. Inertia support by SVC PLUS FS® SVC PLUS FS® for a stable grid SVC PLUS FS® for a CO₂-free power supply While grids are undergoing fundamental changes in terms of power generation, renewable infeed and ever-growing demand, power quality and dynamic grid stability are at risk due to less synchronous power generation. The grid frequency is balanced to 50 Hz or 60 Hz by parity of power demand and generation. The frequency must be kept within specific limits, even in the event of an imbalance: for example, from a disturbance. After a fault, the frequency can only be stabilized by an inertial response from generator-turbine sets. The mechanical kinetic energy defines the frequency drop after disturbance until the operating reserve is activated after several seconds by the primary frequency reserve (PFR). Fewer rotating machines result in shrinking instantaneous reserves, which increases the risk of exceeding critical frequency levels. This may lead to load rejection or a blackout. Grid operators are forced to keep power plants in operation in order to preserve the instantaneous reserve or to optionally invest in additional primary reserve. Some source of fast frequency response (FFR) is urgently needed to cover the gap between inertial response and operating reserves. Have a closer look at the SVC PLUS FS®: 3D Experience Blackout prevention Combining SVC PLUS FS® (modular multilevel STATCOM) and supercapacitors that allow +/–50 MW of active power output/input for up to several seconds, SVC PLUS FS® is an ideal tool for fast frequency response in the first few seconds of a major grid disturbance. Cost-effective solution The supercapacitors are the economical solution of choice to provide high power density at a space-saving footprint. Due to low losses and easy maintenance low lifetime expenditures can be achieved. Short response time The SVC PLUS FS® is geared up for quick injection of reactive and active power and is therefore a highly dynamic solution for voltage regulation and frequency stabilization. High flexibility The highly adaptable solution is suitable for various applications through the flexible adjustment of control parameters. Indipendent of power generation Not defined as a power generating unit and therefore available to all transmission system operators who aren’t allowed to operate power-generating assets. Environmentally friendly Small footprint, no local CO₂ emissions; allows more grid access for renewable power generators. Key technical parameters of SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM) Can address any voltage level Footprint: 2,700 m 2 Active power: Pmax = +/–50 MW Reactive power: Q = +/–70 Mvar Available energy: 450 MJ (upscaling to 4x units in parallel possible) SVC PLUS FS®: more options for grid operators In challenging times like ours, grid operators need versatile resources that give them options not only to react, but to act proactively. At that, with SVC PLUS FS®, operators can be sure of a reliable, economical and space-saving solution with many advantages in terms of response time, control accuracy, and economic impact. Have a closer look at the SVC PLUS FS®: 3D Experience Turnkey solutions While every power grid and every large industrial consumer has specific challenges in terms of power quality, active and reactive power compensation, and grid stability, our customized SVC PLUS FS® turnkey solutions answer these challenges from a single source, including customized consulting. From technical clarifications to on-site support and turnkey solutions, our service portfolio helps you optimize your assets and their performance throughout their entire service life – with comprehensive solutions from just one provider. Also discover our SVC PLUS® (STATCOM) A reliable grid is crucial for a successful energy transition Grid-forming Stable grid voltage without relying on external grid reference Reducing dependence on external influences/reference sources Sustain voltage and frequency during disturbances and load changes Discover grid-forming Grid Flow PLUS - our new control and protection platform Control & Protection (C&P) systems are key to managing power flows and protecting grid components in HVDC and FACTS plants. Both tasks have to be considered in light of increasingly complex grid architectures and fluctuating power infeed from renewable energy sources. For many Transmission System Operators (TSO) and Distribution System Operators (DSO), this leads to three major challenges: first, fast reaction to market needs and short lead time of the C&P system. Second, reliable and secure operations throughout the entire lifecycle while safeguarding low Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). And last but not least, the C&P system should be easy to expand for new solutions and services. This is crucial in order to cope with the ongoing transformation of the energy system and to leverage the potential of future innovations. With our new modular C&P platform Grid Flow PLUS, we’re addressing all of these challenges. C&P platform - Grid Flow PLUS Modular and standardized approach to engineering improvement High degree of basic functionalities based on Reference Project Lines Fully digital Reference Project Line Standardized software components with integrated testing Dynamic software development Faster system deployment and reduced engineering loops Reliable and safe operations with ensured security Proven technologies thoroughly tested, including PLUSCONTROL 2nd generation, Sicam PAS/SCC, and Beckhoff R&D with full functional performance testing at control system cubicles Emphasis on cybersecurity with industrially proven Unix operating system and compliance with IEC62443 2-4 and 3-3 Continued service of existing C&P system platform Future-proof with open standards for continued service and hardware-independent software development Emphasis on digitalization with a common data backbone and cloud-based engineering portal Application of future pilot project for cloud-based operator training simulator Prepared for ongoing transformation and participation in future innovations Additional information SVC PLUS FS® flyer PDF (2 MB) Download Grid stabilization brochure PDF (23 MB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025