Live tank circuit breakers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Bringing Zero closer: 3AV1 Live Tank Circuit Breaker With Zero F-gases and Zero harm, this 72.5 - 145 kV circuit breaker makes a greener grid achievable Why we need to go for Zero. And why you need Blue. With the energy sector having a greater carbon impact than every other industry combined, the urgent need for decarbonization to combat climate change cannot be overstated. Renewable energy sources are only part of the solution; at Siemens Energy we understand how essential it is to achieve Zero Global Warming Potential (GWP) in the transmission of power as well as in its generation. Most switchgear still uses SF6 for insulation – a gas 24,300 times more climate-hostile than CO2 and one which stays in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. Even the new F-gas alternatives are still harmful to the environment when released. That’s not sustainable, as recognized by the new EU-F-gas-regulation. And it’s why we’ve developed our Zero-harm Blue portfolio, including the 3AV1 live tank circuit breaker. When traditional technology is still needed While we are continuously striving for Zero, it is not yet possible for every voltage level. Thats why we still offer a range of high-performance traditional switchgear. Go to our standard portfolio Zero SF6, Zero greenhouse gases - only clean air The only way to achieve Zero GWP and Zero toxicity is by using clean air. The 3AV1 live tank circuit breaker combines vacuum switching technology with clean air insulation. It operates with Zero harmful greenhouse gases of any kind, with Zero toxic decomposition products and Zero safety requirements during handling and maintenance. The clean air used – consisting of 80% nitrogen and 20% oxygen, cleaned and free of humidity – can be released into the atmosphere with Zero harmful effects to people or the environment.  This represents a vital step towards the goal of achieving Zero GWP throughout the energy grid. At the same time, the 3AV1 live tank circuit breaker maintains the highest standards of performance and reliability. It delivers high voltages with the highest switching performance without degradation, and is capable of operating in extreme environmental conditions across the globe. Flyer Blue live tank circuit breaker Essential facts and features Essential facts and features Zero environmental impact Zero SF6 and other F-gases Zero greenhouse gas emissions Zero GWP Zero impact on health and safety Zero toxic insulation gases Zero toxic decomposition products Zero special safety measures needed during maintenance Zero regulations on handling of gas Zero disposal of gases required at end of life Zero regulations Zero reporting and accounting of gases required Zero issues with current and potential legislation against F-gases Zero compromise on performance and reliability Voltages from 72.5 to 145 kV High number of short-circuit and rated current interruptions Two-cycle current interruption Full performance down to -60°C ambient temperature Maintenance-free interrupter unit during its lifetime 10+ years of experience in HV vacuum switching Blue circuit breakers: future-ready and future-proof Further readings Intelligent circuit breakers for a sustainable future At Hesseln substation, Germany, Siemens Energy and grid operator Westnetz are showing how innovation can drive decarbonization and digitalization in energy transmission. Worlds first Sensgear® circuit-breaker Implementation of the innovative vacuum switching technology in combination with a digitally enhanced circuit-breaker for transmission grid operator (TSO) ENEA. Read about the implementation of two innovations! Challenging the energy industry on SF6 Dealing with emissions of greenhouse gases from the energy grids worldwide will require more than just adding carbon-free generation from wind, solar, hydropower, and other sources. We have to eliminate man-made climate change gases like SF6, says Tom Rak, a consultant on greenhouse gas issues. By Frank Jossi Read the full story Climate protection thanks to innovative technology at the Noerdlingen substation Netze BW, Noerdlingen, Germany Live tanks for rated voltages up to 1100 kV While we are fully committed to the implementation of clean air technology, the fact is that in the short term there may be circumstances where it cannot yet be used, such as the need for super-high voltage levels. For these situations, we continue to offer a range of high-performance traditional switchgear. Our high-voltage circuit breakers, regardless of type or voltage range, are designed in a well proven modular platform concept. This leads to a high diversity of types and high flexibility with regard to our customers’ requirements. They are available for single- and three-pole operation, either with a common base (FG) or with separate bases (FI) and can be equipped with optional closing resistors for applications from 362 kV up to 1100 kV. Moreover you can chose between porcelain or composite insulators. Main features For applications from 72.5 kV to 1,100 kV, up to 80 kA With spring drive mechanism and self-compression principle Suitable for temperatures from -60 up to +55°C Seismic withstand capability up to 0.3 g or 0.5 g Gas leakage rate of less than 0.1 % per year Type tested according to the latest international standards Advantages Easy installation and commissioning: only few subassemblies Inspection after 12 and maintenance after 25 years 10,000 switching operations are guaranteed Service life of up to 50 years Over 110,000 circuit breakers delivered worldwide prove our best practices and years of experience Our services for you You can find details on our live tank circuit breakers and information about our services here. Downloads Support Services Brochures Brochure high-voltage circuit breakers PDF (17 MB) Download Brochure circuit switchers PDF (1 MB) Download Flyers 3AV1 Blue live tank circuit breaker PDF (590 KB) Download TechFacts #101 PDF (504 KB) Download We can gladly help you with installation, commissioning, diagnostics and malfunctions Switching Products Service Customer support center Register for upcoming events & webinars Siemens Energy fairs, events & webinars Siemens Energy Downloads Whitepapers & Recordings Read more March 29, 2020 3 min read Worlds first Sensgear® circuit-breaker October 26, 2021 7 min read Challenging the energy industry on SF6 See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025