Solutions and Products for Electric Propulsion or Drives Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Solutions and products for electric propulsion / drives Advanced ship propulsion systems for maximum added value Advanced ship propulsion systems for maximum added value of all the onboard systems, the propulsion system has the biggest influence on performance, security, and cost-effectiveness. Fuel consumption, as the greatest single cost item, holds the biggest cost-saving potential for a ship’s operation. Moreover, the choice of a suitable propulsion system influences a whole host of other factors. For instance, quiet operation with low vibration will heighten onboard comfort. Power reserves and maneuverability will increase the vessel’s potential commercial value. And a modular, space-saving drive design will afford more flexibility when planning the layout of your ship. Our integrated drive system concepts help you find the right technology for your purposes. Contact us Electric propulsion / drives solutions at a glance We offer future-proof electric propulsion/drives solutions for the safe, efficient, and reliable operation of commercial as well as naval vessels. Drive LV Our two diesel-electric marine propulsion systems reduce fuel requirements, increase maneuverability, minimize environmental risks, and make your ship quieter and more comfortable. Drive MV Designed without compromising power output and fail-safe performance, our Drive MV integrated drive system offers an almost unlimited power range. Permasyn In the Permasyn motor for submarines, excitation is achieved with permanent magnets. This results in outstanding features in terms of uncompromising reliability and operational readiness. SGM Siemens Energy developed the SGM shaft generator with motor function in response to rising fuel costs and ever-stricter environmental regulations. SISHIP BlueDrive Family With SISHIP BlueDrive Eco, the SISHIP BlueDrive family is now offering scalable solutions for all drive requirements, covering diverse performance graduations for small to medium-sized drives, from 5 KW in auxiliary mode up to 5.5 MW in main drives. DC Prop With their outstanding reliability, minimized noise signature, and stray field development, Siemens Energy DC-Prop DC drives are perfectly suitable for operation in submarines. Highly reliable low-voltage drives up to 5 MW Diesel-electric propulsion systems are gaining more and more importance in shipping. Shipping installations with higher fuel efficiency in all operational stages will be increasingly favored and will presumably have great potential for future growth. Drive LV is the leading technology solution. Powerful and economical to operate Diesel-electric marine propulsion systems reduce fuel requirements, increase maneuverability, minimize environmental risks, and make your ship quieter and more comfortable. However, their main advantage lies in the exceptional degree of fail-safety that Drive LV attains, thanks to its redundant system design. Indeed, Drive LV is the most reliable diesel-electric propulsion system ever built, making it a future-proof solution which helps to ensure the competitiveness of your vessels for the long term. Profit from a perfectly planned system consisting of diesel generators, low-voltage switchgear, frequency converter, and drive motors in combination with an ingenious propulsion control and monitoring system. Your advantages with Drive LV Reliable, economical, and efficient operation High investment protection Significant reduction of fuel costs due to changes in ship operating profiles Optimal availability and ease of maintenance thanks to standardized core components used worldwide Power rating of up to 5,500 kW at 690 V for each propeller Various configurations for individualized drive concepts State-of-the-art medium-voltage drives from 5 MW upward Diesel-electric propulsion systems are clearly superior both technically and in operation to normal diesel drive systems in almost all areas. Drive MV is the marine industry’s leading alternating-current propulsion system. Although it can unleash much power, it runs as quiet as a whisper with low vibration. High-performance and cost-effective operation Designed without compromising power output and fail-safe performance, our Drive MV integrated drive system offers an almost unlimited power range. In addition to its high energy efficiency and low environmental impact, it is also marked by its quiet, low-vibration operation. And thanks to its state-of-the-art propulsion-control components and software, Drive MV allows vessels to be maneuvered with the highest precision. Its redundancy design ensures the highest possible level of reliability. Right from the design phase, its simple, compact, and modular construction using standardized components provides maximum flexibility and scope and allows for worldwide availability of spare parts and ease of maintenance. Your advantages with Drive MV High performance with low consumption Optimal operating security and fail-safe performance Outstanding maneuverability Quiet, low-vibration operation Standardized components available worldwide Increased competitiveness and investment protection Highly efficient low-profile motors for submarines Submarines are the vessels that depend most on the complete reliability and operational readiness of their propulsion motors. A drive system that operates efficiently with very low signatures is essential for long dives and makes the boat harder to detect. The Permasyn motor for submarines is smaller and more lightweight than conventional propulsion solutions – and it achieves much better efficiency at extremely low signatures. Small, reliable, and difficult to trace In the Permasyn motor for submarines, excitation is achieved with permanent magnets. This results in outstanding features in terms of uncompromising reliability and operational readiness, combined with high efficiency and extremely low signature values. The replacement of the electrical exciter by a permanent magnet makes possible extremely small and lightweight motors with high power density and high torque over the entire speed range. This enables the use of a larger propeller with significantly higher efficiency. Your advantages with Permasyn Permasyn features ultracompact construction thanks to integrated IGBT converter technology Extremely low signature values Low weight and high energy efficiency for longer submerged operation Low heat emission, simplified electromagnetic shielding Electronic speed regulation without torque-free shift intervals, switching noise, or high current peaks Energy-saving and environmentally friendly shaft generator with motor function Spiraling fuel costs and anticipated emission controls already feature strongly in the early design stage of a ship. With the SGM shaft generator with motor function, your vessels are best equipped to meet the necessary criteria. Making energy available where it is needed Siemens Energy developed the SGM shaft generator with motor function in response to rising fuel costs and ever-stricter environmental regulations. It incorporates motor- and generator-driven operation in the vessel’s main drive system, and can be used for electrical power generation as well as for boosting the main drive system. At the same time, it significantly reduces fuel consumption and emissions. The SGM shaft generator is available with either low- or medium-voltage technology and can be combined with waste-heat recovery or hybrid solutions to increase drive performance. Your advantages with SGM Enhanced competitiveness and investment protection Seamless service and support Standardized components available worldwide Custom-designed for your requirements Optimal operating security and fail-safe performance Highly efficient shaft generator / motor systems from a single source Innovative diesel-electric propulsion systems Siemens Energy has over many years created a wide portfolio and extensive competence within the field of power electronics and propulsion systems. By changing the conventional propulsion system configuration and implementing a totally new control philosophy, the ultra-compact SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC™ system is created. With this system a whole new set of possibilities and advantages opens. Variable speed-operated diesel engines and load shifting With the SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC electric propulsion system, individual speed control of each engine over the entire engine speed region is possible. This is true, even for full diesel-electric vessels independent of synchronous speed. The control system will dynamically set the speed according to the at-all-times optimal operational point of the engine. With this, the SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC control system secures that the diesel engines are operating at the lowest possible specific fuel consumption (g/kWh). During DP operation the advantages are substantial, because production and even spinning reserve can be realized with limited consumption, emission, and maintenance costs. To lower the fuel consumption even more, the system makes possible load shifting between the port and starboard parts of the system. Your advantages with SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC Low emission of greenhouse gases Low fuel consumption Low investment cost compared to gas/dual fuel systems Makes possible full utilization of SCR systems and reduced NOX emissions Reduced maintenance cost on diesel engines Increased lifetime of diesel engines, especially for high-speed engines Reduced space, volume, and weight of the electrical system Increased overall efficiency of the electrical system Clean power supply to all auxiliary consumers No rectifier transformers Electrical power system SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC – electrical power system The synchronous generators are designed to operate in the same speed and power range as the connected diesel engine. Due to extended development of the power electronics, the main drive unit SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC is created as a stand-alone, integrated unit, including the generator and bus-tie panel as well as the frequency converter controls for all thrusters and auxiliary drives. In addition, the unit provides clean power supply to all auxiliary consumers, and all electronics are based on known and well-proven technology. In addition to the operational advantages, the new unit reduces footprint, volume, and weight by at least 30 percent. Power station control system SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC – power station control system The SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC unit is equipped with an integrated control system that realizes all genset control, drive control and power management functions within the unit itself. The speed and power of the diesel engines is controlled in correspondence with the total power consumption of the vessel. The electric system is only fed with active power from the generators; hence there is no circulating reactive power to handle. The speed and power characteristics of the diesel engine will be parameterized according to the selected diesel engine type. Integrated parts of the system are Power Management (PMS), Power Plant Protection (P3) and Generator Power Adaption Systems (GPA). All these systems are integrated in the integrated control system of the SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC. SISHIP BlueDrive Eco The BlueDrive PlusC for small vessels: SISHIP BlueDrive Eco SISHIP BlueDrive Eco combines the experience from both systems SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC and SISHIP EcoProp. SISHIP EcoProp is well known as a flexible, compact, high-power diesel-electric propulsion system for smaller vessels such as yachts, ferries, and public authority vessels. Like the complete SISHIP BlueDrive family, SISHIP BlueDrive Eco uses the Siemens Energy industrial converter platform components, providing very high reliability and availability. It enables scalable systems from 5 kW inverter power use and closes the power range (to SISHIP BlueDrive PlusC up to 5.5 MW inverter power), all in the same topology. BlueVault™ The Siemens Energy Storage System (ESS): BlueVault The advanced lithium-ion battery-based solution BlueVault for offshore installations and marine vessels is suited for both all-electric and hybrid energy-storage applications. BlueVault energy storage solutions are designed to help ensure continuity of power and to minimize carbon dioxide emissions. The battery is designed to maximize life, performance, and safety. It is equipped with an integrated battery management system and overload/short circuit protection. The storage modules with 6.6 kWh Li-Ion batteries can be slid into a rack. The battery storage cubicle consists of 9 modules and 60 kWh. The cubicles can be easily lined up to the total required battery capacity. The SISHIP BlueDrive family – technology for a green future DC drives for submarines Submarine drives need to be able to withstand the toughest demands. On long missions and under extreme conditions they must also be able to function perfectly to ensure maximum security for the boat and crew. They also demand low signatures, high efficiency, and easy-to-maintain, space-saving, and lightweight modules. With its strong focus on these demands, our DC-Prop for submarines are a favorite option for some type of submarines. Absolute security, readiness, and efficiency as well as low signatures With their uncompromising performance, absolutely reliable operation, and minimized noise signature and stray field development, Siemens Energy DC-Prop DC drives are perfectly suitable for operation in submarines. Additional benefits are their high energy efficiency and maintenance-friendly, space-saving construction using ultra-lightweight components. Your advantages with DC Prop DC drives offer maximum reliability and availability thanks to their separation into two independent motor sections Robust impact- and shock-proof construction Acoustic signature well under all required threshold levels Shielding of all connections and internal cabling against stray fields State-of-the-art efficiency over the entire motor speed range Speed-controlled fans and cooling units matched to the machine’s requirements Simple access to maintenance components Do you have any questions? If you want to learn more about our offering for the marine sectors, don’t hesitate to contact us. Our marine experts will gladly answer all your questions and provide you with comprehensive information. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025