Compressor Solutions and Services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Compressor solutions and services Single shaft, integrally geared and reciprocating compressors - discover our comprehensive portfolio of compressor solutions and services for a wide range of industries. Our compressor solutions and services can be standardized or tailored to your needs for a variety of applications such as: Hydrogen, CO2, onshore or offshore oil and gas production, natural gas transmission and distribution, air separation, chemicals, petrochemicals, and refining. Compressor trains are typically manufactured for continuous and uninterrupted operation allowing inspection and maintenance to be synchronized with general plant or asset maintenance schedules. Every solution can be designed with a special focus on energy efficiency depending on customer preferences. Committed to staying ahead of time Across every market and with every solution we engineer and deliver, we have a shared goal—to keep you ahead of the competition while exceeding expectations. To do so, we work together to make every second count. We address the needs of today and tomorrow. We do it all to shape the compression market for generations to come—to help ensure we stay ahead. Shaping compressor solutions for future generations Discover how we, as a leading compressor manufacturer, are pioneering innovative solutions to shape the future of compression technology. Our overview video delves into the advancements in our compression business and showcases how our cutting-edge compressors can support your decarbonization goals. Compressor portfolio Single shaft Pipeline Integrally geared Reciprocating From standard processes to high-pressure applications, our single-shaft compressors are the ideal solution for a wide range of industries and process applications. Explore our compressors We offer a wide range of pipeline compressors with a choice of axial intake or conventional horizontally opposed suction and discharge nozzles. Explore our compressors For small to medium compressor sizes we offer a package design. The package can include the compressor, driver, process gas coolers, lube oil console, process piping, and all tubing and wiring. Explore our compressors Our extensive portfolio of slow speed process reciprocating compressors and medium to high-speed separable units enable us to offer products for applications across both  process and decarbonization industries. Explore our compressors Single stage Expansion turbines Hydrogen compressors CO2 compressors We offer a range of comprehensive single-stage radial compressors for applications in the metallurgical, oil and gas and chemical industries. Explore our compressors Integrally geared radial expanders are applied where energy can be recovered from medium to high temperature off-gas or process gas streams from chemical and other industrial processes. Explore our compressors As a globally recognized hydrogen compressor manufacturer, we can provide you with the optimum equipment solution, with a high lifetime value, for all your compression needs. Explore our compressors Whether your application is for CO₂ injection, Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) or urea plants, we will work with you to achieve your economic and sustainability goals. Explore our compressors Compressor controls and automation Explore our Compressor Train One Control solutions to see how we can enhance your operations with our cutting-edge technology and industry knowledge. Explore our control solutions Compressor services Compressor services Modernizations and upgrades Repair solutions Compression service programs Visit our Customer Energy Portal for all of your compressor service requests and information needs. Explore our compressor services Keep your compression equipment up to date and running efficiently. Whether you have ageing equipment, changes in operating conditions, or you are at the early stages of outage planning, we can help you optimize your compressor performance. Explore modernizations and upgrades Delivering swift, cost-effective and long-lasting repair solutions to keep your equipment running at peak performance. Explore repair solutions and services Our service programs can help you stay competitive by reducing your operating costs and enhancing overall equipment performance. Explore our service programs Remote Diagnostic Services Dry gas seals Gas engine solutions Training Optimize asset production by turning operational data into value. In a proactive approach, we monitor the complete range of rotating equipment to identify a potential problem before it impacts operation. Explore RDS Increase efficiency, reliability and sustainability. Our goal is to minimize your ongoing wet seal costs, unscheduled downtime and resulting productivity losses. Explore dry gas seals From modernizations and upgrades, scheduled overhauls, and repairs to spare parts, our global team of highly qualified specialists is dedicated to delivering dependable and on-going support. Explore gas engine services Learn how to operate and maintain reciprocating compressors, centrifugal compressors, steam turbines and gas turbines. Explore training options Latest articles Siemens Energy expands Houston footprint New compressor test facility brings ASME PTC 10 testing to Houston Read more Turbomachinery-based technologies for decarbonization Siemens Energy is developing three technologies—an advanced rotor hydrogen compressor, a Turbo Heater, and a rotating olefins cracker—to drive the energy transition and reduce carbon emissions Read more Addressing pain points of anti-surge and load sharing control in centrifugal compressors Control systems play a critical role in the performance of centrifugal compressors and the efficiency of the processes that they drive. Read more Five factors to consider when specifying your compression needs Are traditional O&G specifications hampering your energy transition project's economics? Read more Painted Post, a global epicenter for gas compression, engineering, manufacturing and servicing In the upstate New York village of Painted Post, Siemens Energy operates a modern, purpose-built 44-acre plant where reciprocating gas compressors are designed, manufactured, and serviced. Read more New compressor solutions for emerging hydrogen applications: The case for hybrid designs Compressors represent an essential part of the emerging hydrogen value chain and are needed to efficiently transport and store hydrogen from the production source to it's point of end-use. Read more Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on Compressor solutions and services What are compressors? Compressors are mechanical devices that increase the pressure of a gas thereby reducing its volume. They are used in various applications to move and compress gases for different industrial processes. What are the types of compressors for industrial applications? There are several types of compressors used in industrial applications, including reciprocating compressors, integrally geared centrifugal compressors and single shaft centrifugal compressors.  Each type has its own specific use cases and advantages depending on the application. Which compressor is best for the energy industry? The best compressor for the energy industry depends on the specific requirements of the application. Factors such as flow, pressure ratio, turndown capacity, process gas variation will determine the best compressor selection. For example, integrally geared compressors (IGCs) are often used for large flow CO2 compression in carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) applications due to their efficiency and reliability. What are the industrial applications for compressors? Compressors are used in a wide range of industrial applications, including oil and gas production, natural gas transmission and distribution, air separation, chemical and petrochemical processing, and refining.  Applications also includes key areas of industrial decarbonization including carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS), decarbonization of heat, production of clean fuels, energy storage and hydrogen compression for production, transportation and utilization. What is the manufacturing process for compressors? The manufacturing process of compressors involves several steps, including the design and engineering of components, machining and fabrication of parts, assembly of the compressor units, and rigorous testing to ensure performance and reliability. Furthermore, the compressor is often integrated with balance of plant equipment into an overall package. Specific manufacturing processes may vary depending on the type of compressor being manufactured. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025