Krafla Geothermal Power Station in Iceland Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support Geothermal energy Reference Automation Modernization and upgrades Control systems Instrumentation and control Electrical systems By modernizing the electrical equipment and turbine control system the Krafla power station helps to stabilize the grid and ensures secure power supply. Contact us “ Our new Omnivise T3000 control system and several other measures allow us to now stabilize the grid with primary frequency control. This places us light years ahead of where we were. Jón Arnar Emilsson Project Manager, Landsvirkjun The customer challenge: Long-term support during plant life cycle The Krafla Power Station is a geothermal power plant operated by Landsvirkjun. Located in the northeast of Iceland, the Power Station was built in the crater of the Krafla volcano. It was first brought online in 1978. Due to need of modernization, the plant was refurbished, and a 2nd unit was installed in 1997. Geothermal energy is generated with hot water stemming from underground reservoirs, which makes this process extremely environmentally friendly. Generating 500 Gwh/y and with an installed capacity of 60 MW, Krafla Power Station is crucial for Iceland’s energy supply. Landsvirkjun chose to modernize the electrical equipment and turbine control system to make the power station state-of-the-art. To optimize the power output, the turbine control system needed be upgraded and a voltage regulator was required to secure critical electrical components. Landsvirkjun was looking for a partner to provide long-term support and serviceability during the plant life cycle. The solution: Grid stability thanks to primary frequency control Siemens Energy refurbished and integrated several elements, such as the Omnivise T3000 control system, including turbine governor, hydraulics, monitoring, and instrumentation, as well as generator electrical equipment. In order to better adjust the grid connection, the turbine control system for the existing pair of MHI DEH turbines was updated. Additionally, a compact voltage regulator with an integrated power module, along with new protection devices, were installed to secure critical electrical components. Even though all the initially-scoped enhancements were made, the project was not finished. Once Landsvirkjun realized the potential benefits offered by new hydraulics and advanced control algorithms, the improvement ideas began to flow, and the project scope expanded over time. One of the project’s main achievements was to enable the Krafla plant to provide primary frequency control. With these impressive changes, Krafla power station now contributes to grid stability in Iceland and performs more efficiently. Therefore, it is considered one of the best turbines currently in operation in the country. Landsvirkjun was impressed with Siemens Energy’s project implementation, especially the collaboration with the on-site team and the know-how that was freely shared. Despite logistical challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, Siemens Energy delivered smooth and on-time project execution. Find out more about the products and services applied: Omnivise T3000 Control system Contact us The benefits: State-of-the-art operation, control technology, and electrical equipment Primary frequency control capability and contribution to grid stability in Iceland Improvement of control accuracy Smooth implementation process, with nearly no outage time More about DCS modernization in geothermal  power plants With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services 3 min read PacificLight, Singapore: Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) to improve power plant efficiency and power output See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025