Storage solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Shaping a new energy world with storage solutions To fight climate change we need carbon neutral energy production and distribution. Shaping a new energy world with storage solutions To fight climate change we need carbon neutral energy production and distribution. For that, renewables such as wind and solar are key. But their supply fluctuates – and still, energy demand has to be met, and the grid has to operate reliably and economically. While today’s energy producers respond to grid fluctuations by mainly relying on fossil-fired power plants, energy storage solutions will take on a dominant role in fulfilling this need in the future, supplying renewable energy 24/7. It’s already taking shape today – and in the coming years it will become a more and more indispensable and flexible part of our new energy world. Present Future Today, in a variety of cases, battery storage is being used as an efficient method of supplying power when needed. For example, many large offshore vessels or drilling platforms use it for their electricity needs. In power plants, together with mechanical flywheels, batteries are being used for ensuring grid stability, to perform ‘black starts’ (without external power sources) if needed, and support frequency regulation. They are also directly connected to the grid as stand-alone solutions to help with fluctuating power supply and demand. And combining renewables – such as wind farms – with battery storage can successfully manage power depending on current needs. By mid-century, we envision a nearly completely decarbonized world with power produced from renewable sources only, resulting in efficient power consumption across society, intelligent management of a decentralized power grid, and the wide use of different energy storage technologies. Batteries will be used for short-term storage of electricity, and, for mid-term storage, combinations of thermal and mechanical storage solutions will provide industrial heat and electricity. Also, electrolyzers will turn excess power from renewables into green hydrogen that can be stored long term and turned into electricity or transferred to other sectors of the economy as needed. Energy Storage Webinar Storing fluctuating electricity supply is vital to stabilize the grid in the face of growing renewables build-out. Join us to discuss and evaluate the project economics of various technology types for integrated energy storage, and the possibility of sector coupling via H2 energy storage. Watch on demand Why storage is the Swiss Army knife of energy transition When it comes to our energy future, nothing will work without energy storage. That’s why the massive and rapid rollout of energy storage solutions is essential to stabilise the grid, decarbonise power generation, secure energy supply and make sector coupling possible. Read article ELEC's world For ELEC, everything revolves around the topic of energy. No wonder, after all, he lives in a light bulb. Bursting with questions on the energy transition, he wants to know why storage solutions are so important on our way towards a CO₂-free economy. Watch the video for more. Want to see more ELEC episodes and join him on his quest for answers on the energy transition? Explore more Your challenges – our solutions The situation energy producers, distributers and industrial consumers find themselves in is by no means easy. They face constant social pressure to decarbonize – and risk ruining their reputation if they appear not to act fast enough. As long as they emit CO 2 , they have to pay a hefty price for it. Once energy utilities close fossil-fired power plants, they have to manage stranded assets. Also, renewable energy producers have to ensure a consistent availability of energy – and in order to do so, they may have to curtail output. And as the share of renewable energy increases year over year, operators are challenged to cost-efficiently match energy supply and demand and ensure grid stability. But a steady flow of energy is non-negotiable: Industry, like many other sectors of the economy, relies on it in order to ensure its operations run smoothly and without interruption. The production of green hydrogen also requires renewable energy sources, but if none are available, energy still needs to be at hand to manufacture it. Energy storage solves many of these problems: No need to curtail energy If you have a surplus in energy production, energy storage solutions can save it for later. Take advantage of high energy prices Stored energy can be sold when energy prices are higher. Match supply and demand Storage solutions help balancing energy supply and demand. Restarts without external power On-site batteries enable black-start capabilities often required by regulators. Maintain grid stability With the share of renewables increasing, energy storage helps to stabilize the grid. Fewer stranded assets Storage solutions expand conventional power plants or turn them into energy storage facilities. Securing continuous operation Avoiding operational downtime and penalties for non-available service by using energy storage as back-up power. Avoiding surplus costs and penalties Stored renewable energy helps avoiding CO2 prices associated with fossil energy production. Digital optimization With the help of smart digital tools, you can get the most out of storage facilities. Virtual power plants Energy storage solutions can be part of an efficient network of power generating units. Potential benefits Expertise you can count on Turnkey solutions We take responsibility for the entire project, from engineering through commissioning, keeping your project on time and on budget. And if you need long-term maintenance, we can provide that as well. Proven track-record For over 170 years, we have been known to meet the highest standards in the energy sector. With our broad knowledge and state-of-the-art technology portfolio, we’re able to offer a broad array of energy storage solutions tailored to your needs. Advice you can trust You’re faced with important decisions concerning the future of your energy assets. How can you make sure you will be successful tomorrow? Siemens Energy can be your long-term partner, supporting projects anywhere, anytime – even over decades. If you consult us, you can be assured that we’ll find the solution you need. Reliable performance We’ll help you ensure continuous, reliable performance of your assets by using advanced monitoring and control systems. These keep your performance in line with our predictions. And possibly even better. World-class service Need help in a hurry? Our ‘Remote Expert Centre’ has an eye on your system 24/7. Service technicians are available for quick help – either remotely or on-site. This protects profitability by guaranteeing plant performance. Smart decarbonizing Our storage solutions enable the decarbonization of entire sectors by making renewable energy sources available 24/7. Therefore, seasonal and multi-day energy shifting is made possible, and limiting power output is avoided. Handling renewables With the share of renewables increasing annually, the energy grid is facing challenges. By providing instant and zero-carbon energy, our storage portfolio allows grid stabilization. Revenue streams Energy storage creates new revenue streams. For example, it allows expansion of the grid by supplying and storing energy for grid stabilization (so-called virtual grid expansion). Likewise, when energy is cheap, it can be stored to sell it when prices are high (so-called energy arbitrage). Storing Energy: A major building block for our energy future In this white paper you will find an overview of energy storage systems and how they help us build a decarbonized energy system. Read new white paper Turning possibility into reality Black-start capability Modernized industrial plant Battery Energy Storage Solutions Instant and reliable power supply Learn more Emissions Reduction, Lower OPEX BlueVault™ battery energy storage, advanced propulsion system and control software Lower emissions and fuel savings Enhance vessel capabilities and efficiency Learn more Black-start capability Ensures critical reliability, improves grid stability Engineering, procurement, construction by Siemens Energy Battery Energy Storage Solution Learn more Power reserve for frequency response Battery Energy Storage Solution in combination with gas turbine, erected on a barge Capacity to provide grid services while gas turbine operating at full load Provide frequency response during plant shutdown Learn more Black-start capability Ensures critical reliability, improves grid stability Engineering, construction, commissioning by Siemens Energy Battery Energy Storage Solution Learn more Emissions reduction BlueVault™ Energy Storage Solution Reduces runtime of onboard combustion engines Designed for minimizing emissions Learn more Let's talk We’re happy to assist you on your journey towards a new energy future. Please send us a message and we'll get back to you. Press releases January 28, 2021 Orlando Siemens Energy wins its first black-start battery storage project for power generation in the U.S. June 26, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy establishes network for efficient energy storage solutions Read all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025