HVDC Transformers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications High-voltage direct-current (HVDC) converter transformers Powering the future: HVDC transformers and the energy transition HVDC transformers are at the forefront of the ongoing energy transition. These marvels of engineering play a crucial role in highly efficient power transmission for both offshore and onshore grid connections. As we increasingly turn to renewable energy sources, the demand for reliable, efficient power transmission is growing. HVDC transformers from Siemens Energy meet this demand, enabling the successful implementation of HVDC transmission systems . Elevating grid efficiency: Siemens Energy's HVDC transformer solutions In the context of a rapidly evolving energy landscape, High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) technology stands as a critical enabler for the development of advanced and interconnected power systems. At Siemens Energy, our commitment to engineering excellence is reflected in our HVDC transformer offerings, designed to meet the demands of modern electricity grid. Unmatched expertise: Siemens Energy's HVDC capabilities Siemens Energy's expertise and experience produce superior transformers in different HVDC schemes like HVDC Classic and HVDC PLUS®️. Strategically located across the globe, our facilities help us minimize transport distances. Leveraging the expertise of our experienced design teams, we adeptly manage transmission and grid challenges worldwide. Smart investment: the economic value of HVDC transformers Opting for Siemens Energy's HVDC transformers is a strategic decision. These transformers stand out for their unparalleled reliability, demonstrated by extended periods of faultless operation. Their superior performance metrics significantly reduce risk potential, ensuring considerable cost savings throughout the entire lifecycle of the transformer. Incorporating these aspects into your HVDC transformer procurement strategy guarantees the selection of a robust and reliable product, engineered for consistent and efficient performance. Partnership of choice: why choose Siemens Energy Siemens Energy is the partner of choice when it comes to HVDC transformers. We have a proven track record of delivering successful HVDC transmission systems, with hundreds of HVDC converter transformers in operation all over the globe. Our strong factory network around the globe creates leading HVDC converter transformer technology and pre-manufactured components. We enable and support local transformer manufacturers to produce HVDC converter transformers based on our technology while ensuring our extensive quality standards for manufacturing processes are implemented. With Siemens Energy, you're not just buying a product; you're entering into a partnership for the future. Ready to take the next step in the HVDC journey? Contact Siemens Energy today to discuss your project needs and discover tailored solutions. Click the button below to get in touch with our experts. Contact us Advancing the energy transition: Discover the role of HVDC projects We invite you to explore the significant contributions of High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) technology in advancing the energy transition, as Siemens Energy leads the way in implementing innovative solutions for a decarbonized future. SüdOstLink and Ultranet Ramping up renewable energy: Siemens Energy connects Italys largest islands to the mainland Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025