E-Methanol’s giant step forward Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications August 4, 2022 4 min read One giant leap for e-Methanol by Steve Meyer Story Drive industry decarbonization “This is a crucial moment in the green transition,” says Knud Erik Anderson, CEO of European Energy, as a new project being engineered to provide e-Methanol offtake to shipping giant Maersk is ten times larger than any plant built to date. The world’s largest e-Methanol production facility, commissioned by European Energy, will be installed in Kassø, located west of Aabenraa in Southern Denmark. European Energy, an innovator of green energy solutions, already has a strong track record throughout Europe in developing wind and photovoltaic (PV) renewable energy plants. Keen to develop its business further, the company is entering the e-Methanol market, where its renewable energy technology will support the development of the largest e-Methanol production plant worldwide. The challenges for larger-scale e-Methanol production plants include sourcing enough renewable energy to power the plant processes and finding a viable offtake based on final product prices that are considerably higher than traditional methanol production. To date, it has been difficult to find partners that have the courage and knowledge to make such a project a success. “ This is a crucial moment in the green transition as we move forward with the decarbonization of hard-to-abate sectors such as the shipping industry, and we trust that Siemens Energy outstanding know-how of electrolyzers will become a strong foundation to expand our business of delivering sustainable fuels to the world. Knud Erik Andersen CEO of European Energy European Energy solved these two challenges early in the project lifecycle by using its own wind and PV technology and securing an early agreement with Maersk to take the majority of the offtake. The system utilizes Siemens Energy electrolyzer technology to produce hydrogen which is fed to a synthesis process where it is combined with carbon dioxide to produce e-Methanol. For the development of an industrial scale plant, a deep understanding of the process is required. Siemens Energy is currently investing a great deal in resources for electrolyzer manufacturing with industrial-grade series production lines for stacks. The first electrolyzer array is already in production and scheduled to be commissioned in Summer 2023. It will be followed by two more arrays. The project has a tight schedule, but the mechanisms Siemens Energy has put in place to support the expected growth in electrolyzer production, with standardization of module manufacturing and pre-packaging into arrays combined with a very efficient supply chain, means it will deliver as planned. Why is hydrogen important? Hydrogen offers a new solution for existing markets to reduce carbon emissions. We are heading towards a tremendous transformation as we move from processing oil- and gas-based fuels to e-Fuels, such as e-Methanol. The urgent need for decarbonization means we are anticipating exponential growth in the use of electrolyzers and decarbonized solutions. A strong step forward Although there have been many visions for large-scale e-Methanol production, the project in Kassø is the first to take steps forward in terms of significant scale. It comes at an important time, when, alongside the environmental challenges we face, the war in Ukraine and other geopolitical pressures, supply chain issues, and the need to secure energy supplies are all highlighting weaknesses in the resilience of some countries. For the shipping industry, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) has already committed the sector to halve greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 (based on 2008 levels) to meet Paris Agreement targets – Maersk is even aiming for net zero by 2040. Sustainable fuels are a critical aspect of meeting these targets and Maersk is a first mover in the adoption of technology as the Kassø plant will provide fuel for its first e-Methanol driven container vessel. By taking this essential step with the offtake agreement, Maersk has enabled the Kassø project to go ahead. Although initial prices for the e-Methanol will be higher, this is a relatively small percentage of overall fuel consumption. Going forward, however, Maersk’s commitment to the Kassø plant will enable further investments to drive costs down and increase production efficiency. The Kassø project has shown that, with the right ingredients, it is possible to realize larger projects and start a new e-Methanol economy. It opens a door to the potential this fuel has to offer, especially in hard-to-abate industries such as shipping. We hope the success of this project will lead to further investments from others and the generation of a “critical mass” that will drive down costs and make e-Methanol a fully viable fuel for the future. August, 2022 Steve Meyer is an independent journalist specializing in advanced technology. Read more November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition July 18, 2024 8 min read Mastering grid upgrades: the impact of decarbonizing supply chains March 26, 2024 6 min read Gas turbine plant as guarantor for grid stability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025