Siemens Energy EU Innovation Conference Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications March 25, 2025 - March 26, 2025 Berlin, Huttenstr. 12, 10553 Berlin, Building A71, Innovation Center Berlin Siemens Energy EU Innovation Conference 2025 Innovation Siemens Energy was delighted to host the first EU Innovation Conference at the Innovation Center Berlin (ICB), a gathering that promised to redefine the energy sector through enhanced collaboration and accelerating innovation. The event featured compelling keynote speeches, workshops, and dynamic discussions. Speakers included experts from across business, academia, and Siemens Energy. Here's a recap. Impressions from the EU Innovation Conference 2025 The conference featured plenty of highlights. Let's take a look at some scenes from inside the Innovation Center Berlin. Download our workshop summaries Whether you attended in person or just want to collect some key learnings, here you can download presentations from each of our event workshops. Decarbonization of Industry PDF (677 KB) Innovating with Wind Power: A Renewable Energy Game-Changer PDF (1 MB) Innovations in Grid Technologies PDF (1 MB) Unlocking Supplier Innovation: Strategies for Success PDF (1 MB) Decarbonization of Gas Turbines with Hydrogen and Green Fuels PDF (1 MB) Acceleration of the Digital Energy Transition PDF (378 KB) Thank you to our featured participants: Equinor Total Energies Ørsted ENGIE RWE Karlsruhe Institute of Technology University of Strathclyde We look forward to seeing you at the EU Innovation Conference 2026, where the themes of Energy Transition and Innovation will take center stage. Event agenda: Pioneering ideas and transformative talks Our first EU Innovation Conference brought together industry leaders, innovators, and thought leadership to connect, share ideas, and shape the future of energy technology. March 25, Day 1 15:00 – 16:00 Check-In 15:00 - 16:00 Check-in and registration is located at the front gate of Siemens Energy AG Gasturbinenwerk Berlin, Huttenstr. 12, 10553 Berlin. 16:00 – 17:30 Expert Tours and Socializing Experience the ICB and network with colleagues during ICB tours led by experts from Siemens Energy. 17:30 – 19:00 Reception Join us at Cafe Energy and enjoy socializing with colleagues and complimentary dinner. March 26, Day 2 08:00 – 09:30 Check-In and Breakfast 08:00 - 09:00 Check-in and registration is located at the front gate of Siemens Energy AG Gasturbinenwerk Berlin, Huttenstr. 12, 10553 Berlin. 08:00 – 09:30 Breakfast at Innovation Center Berlin, A71, Ground Floor. 09:30 – 09:40 Welcome and Safety Welcome Speech and Safety Moment by Anna Jahnke-Gloekler, Marketing Manager, Innovation Center Berlin. Speaker: Anna Jahnke-Gloekler, Marketing Manager, Innovation Center Berlin Introduction: Anna Jahnke-Gloekler is a passionate marketing manager with more than 15 years of experience in the energy sector and has experience in administration, communication and project management. Educational Background: Anna Jahnke-Gloekler is a certified European secretary and foreign language assistant. Her academic background also includes further training in Marketing Management and Personnel Management. 09:40 – 09:50 Intro Introduction from Jaap van Kampen, VP Innovation Center Berlin. Jaap van Kampen, VP Innovation Center Berlin, Field of Action Leader “24/7 Carbon-Free Energy” Introduction: Jaap van Kampen is a distinguished leader in the energy sector with over 20 years of experience. With a strong background in leading innovation organizations across various segments of our business, Jaap has been instrumental in driving decarbonization and sustainable energy projects. Educational Background: Jaap van Kampen holds a PhD in Acoustics & Combustion and an MSc in Mechanical Engineering, both from Twente University in the Netherlands, graduating with honors. 09:50 – 10:00 Setting the Tone Setting the Tone with Kathleen O'Brien, CTO Innovation, Siemens Energy. Speaker: Kathleen O’Brien, Chief Technology Officer Innovation, Siemens Energy Introduction: Kathleen O’Brien is a distinguished leader and engineer with over 20 years of experience in innovation strategy, energy technologies, grid technologies, and renewable energy policy. Educational Background: Kathleen O’Brien holds a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Technische Universität Dresden. 10:00 – 10:15 Opening Remarks EU Innovation Conference Opening Remarks with Juha Pankakoski, Executive Vice President Global Functions, Siemens Energy. Speaker: Juha Pankakoski, Executive Vice President for Global Functions Introduction: Juha Pankakoski is Executive Vice President for Global Functions at Siemens Energy, responsible for areas including IT, Procurement, Innovation, and Project Execution. He has extensive experience in international business and management, particularly in digital transformation, business process harmonization, and technological development. Prior to joining Siemens Energy, he spent a decade at Konecranes as part of the Executive Leadership Team, most recently as the EVP of Business Area Port Solutions. Before his tenure at Konecranes, which began in 2004, Juha worked in telecommunications and IT. Educational Background: Juha holds an Executive MBA from Aalto Executive Education and a Master's degree in Engineering from Helsinki University of Technology. 10:15 – 11:00 Keynote Speeches Gain insights into the energy transition from keynotes showcasing partner, academic, and customer perspectives on innovation and change. Keynote speakers: Torben Norgaard – Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Center for Zero Carbon Shipping, CTO Prof. Eric Brown – University of Strathclyde, Professor of Practice, Energy Systems Faculty of Engineering João Gonçalo Maciel, Managing Director, EDP R&D Centre Torben Nørgaard, Chief Technology Officer  Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Center for Zero Carbon Shipping Introduction: Torben Nørgaard is a distinguished thought leader with over 25 years of experience in the international energy industry. Renowned for development of syn-fuel processes and energy markets, they have contributed significantly to the understanding of sector coupling and synergies to support the decarbonization journey. Educational Background: Torben Nørgaard holds a M.Sc. in Chemical Engineering in combustion reaction kinetics from Technical University of Denmark. Their academic journey also includes diploma in business administration from Copenhagen Business School. Career: Torben Nørgaard has held several pivotal roles, including: CTO, MMMCZCS - drive demonstration and scaling of sustainable fuel pathways Commercial Director, Maersk Oil – global green field energy development Technology Supervisor, Haldor Topsoe – Process development of syn-fuel plants Eric Brown, Professor of Practice, Energy Systems University of Strathclyde Introduction: Eric Brown is an engineer with a career that spans nearly 30 years in telecommunications and 10+ years in energy, in both cases during periods of profound transformation enabled by innovation, infrastructure renewal, digitalization and social change. Educational Background: Eric Brown was educated in Canada and holds an undergraduate degree in Maths and Physics, a further undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering and a graduate degree in Electrical Engineering. He is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology and a Fellow of the Energy Institute. Career: Eric Brown has held several key roles in the energy sector including: Chief Technology Officer, Energy Systems Catapult – a UK innovation organization Chair of Technical Advisory Council, National Energy System Operator] Director, Grid Scientific Limited – independent consulting João Gonçalo Maciel, Managing Director, EDP R&D Centre Introduction: João is the Managing Director of EDP’s R&D Centre.  He was former Technology Development Director of EDP Inovação and served on the Board of other EDP R&D initiatives, namely the WindFloat Project. He has 20+ years of experience in working in the energy sector. Educational Background: João holds a degree in Electrical Engineering – Power Systems from Lisbon University, an MBA from Portuguese Catholic University and NOVA Business School and advanced management studies from the London Business School. 11:00 – 12:00 Morning Workshops Explore expert-led workshops for actionable insights and hands-on experience. Morning Workshop Details Acceleration of the Digital Energy Transition Decarbonization of Gas Turbines with Hydrogen and Green Fuels Unlocking Supplier Innovation: Strategies for Success Session Highlights: Learn how AI and digitalization can elevate your business's efficiency Collaborate to leverage cutting-edge trends for a sustainable, tech-empowered future Speaker: Maiya Kukushkina, Field of Action lead - Condition-based Service Intervention, Innovation Management Introduction: Maiya Kukushkina is an accomplished professional with over 15 years of experience in AI-led Energy Innovation. She has played a pivotal role in advancing digital business initiatives within the Oil & Gas Offshore industry and driving technological advancements and operational efficiencies in this sector. Educational Background: Maiya Kukushkina holds an EMBA degree in Energy sector from BI Norwegian School. Her academic journey also includes Master of Information System and Automation engineer degree from Kazakh-British Technical University. Session Highlights: Delve into hydrogen combustion in gas turbines and adapting power systems for hydrogen integration Learn about upgrading gas turbines for increased hydrogen use and the potential of other green fuels for decarbonization Speakers: Frida Björneld, Vice President for Product Management for the Gas Service Business Area in Siemens Energy Introduction: As an employee of Siemens +18 years, Frida Björneld has held several management positions within Siemens. Before entering the current role, she was Head of Technology and  Innovation  for  Industrial  Application  division  of  Siemen  Energy.  Additional management positions have been in the areas of product integration, fluid systems, mechanical systems, and control systems. Example of focus areas in current role are topics associated to development of Gas Turbines in the area of decarbonization, digitalization and design enabled by additive manufacturing. Educational Background: In addition to Siemens’ positions, Frida Björneld has also been a project manager and stress analysist at Volvo Aero (GKN), focusing on aircraft engines on military and commercial aero engines. The combination of sustainable technology & innovation, strategic portfolio management building a competitive product portfolio, and agile methods have been focus areas for Frida Björneld in her various positions. Dr. Ghenadie Bulat, Head of New Technologies, Gas Services, Siemens Energy Introduction: Dr. Ghenadie Bulat has over 20 years of experience in engineering, management and leadership within Product Development and Technology Innovation. He drives the innovation and excellence in all disciplines required for the success of products of the future. His contribution is reflected in several combustion design improvements, peer reviewed paper publications and patents. Educational Background: Dr. Bulat obtained his PhD from Imperial College London, and his engineering degree from Technical University of Moldova. He is a Chartered Engineer, a Member of Institution of Mechanical Engineers, The Combustion Institute, and a visiting professor of combustion at Imperial College London. Session Highlights: Absorb strategies and best practices for fruitful supplier collaborations Explore our new external gateway for idea collection beyond Siemens Energy Speakers: Lars Schlüter, Head of Cost Value Engineering, Siemens Energy Introduction: Lars Schlüter is a distinguished leader in the fields of R&D, Procurement and Innovation with over 26 years of experience in turbomachinery and energy business. Renowned for his passion of sustainable product cost out, he has contributed significantly to let Cost Value Engineering levers become Siemens Energy company standard. Educational Background: Lars Schlüter holds a Diplom-Ingenieur (Dipl.-Ing.) degree in mechanical engineering from TU Braunschweig. Michael Vellmer, Cost Value Engineer, Scientific Discipline Expert, Siemens Energy Introduction: Michael Vellmer is a distinguished expert in the field of manufacturing & repair, procurement and innovation with over 2 decades of experience in the energy and nuclear sectors. Renowned for his adeptness in scientific disciplines and practical applications, he has contributed significantly to the advancements in the engineering processes at Siemens Energy since entering the company on 2011. Educational Background: Michael Vellmer holds a Diplom-Ingenieur (Dipl.-Ing.) degree in engineering from Fachhochschule Aachen. His academic journey also includes the certification of International Welding Engineer from the International Institute of Welding (IIW). 12:00 – 13:30 Lunch and Networking Join us for lunch at Cafe Energy. 13:30 – 14:30 Afternoon Workshops Explore expert-led workshops for actionable insights and hands-on experience. Afternoon Workshop Details Decarbonization of Industry Innovating with Wind Power: A Renewable Energy Game-Changer Latest Innovations in Grid Technologies Session Highlights: Discover sustainable growth and technological advancements for global impact Engage in discussions that shape the future of industry and drive transformation Speakers: Kirsten Roden, VP for Product Management, Transformation of Industries Introduction: Kirsten Roden is an accomplished leader with almost 20 years of professional experience in several technology fields within Siemens and Siemens Energy. She has worked with a number of innovative formats and concentrates today on enriching integrated solutions for our industrial customers with our latest technologies. Educational Background: Kirsten holds a Diploma in Mechanical engineering from the University of Hannover. Her academic and professional journey has led her to work with different cultures and in different countries across Europe and Asia. Session Highlights: Gain insights into wind power's role as a key player in sustainable energy Participate in the movement to maximize wind energy utilization Speakers: Mar Alegre, Project Manager – Site Assessment Manager​, Siemens Energy Introduction: Mar Alegre is a Physics engineer with over 25 years of experience in Atmospheric Physics. Renowned for her expertise in Site Suitability and Resource & Energy Assessment, she has contributed to the development of Site Assessment teams in various countries. Currently, she works in the Sales area, providing support to regional teams on projects where SGRE-designed WTGs are to be installed, collaborating closely with the Technology team to ensure the best solutions for clients. Educational Background: Mar Alegre holds a degree in Physics of the Air, Earth, and Cosmos from Universidad Complutense de Madrid, and has also pursued additional studies in Pedagogical Education. Nekane Martínez, Business Project Manager, Siemens Energy Introduction: Nekane Martínez is a meteorologist with over 20 years of experience in atmospheric sciences within the renewable energy sector. As a manager, she has led high-performance teams, fostering a collaborative work environment. Currently, she is a Product Manager driving the development of internal Weather and Energy Forecasting solutions and turning customer needs into commercial products. Educational Background: Nekane Martínez holds a degree in Physics of the Air, Earth, and Cosmos from Universidad Complutense de Madrid, and has also pursued additional studies in Astrophysics. Almudena Muñoz, Project Manager – R&D​, Siemens Energy Introduction: Almudena Muñoz is an electrochemist and project manager with over 18 years  of experience in energy storage systems (ESS) and project management within the public, automotive and renewable energy sector. Renowned for holding several patents and for leading multicultural and multidisciplinary teams. Her contributions include new electrolytes and membranes for ESS and new technologies for wind turbines. Currently, she works as Project Manager in Technology Electrical Module. Educational Background: Almudena Muñoz holds a PhD in Electrochemistry and a degree in Chemistry from Autonomous University of Madrid. Her academic journey includes a Master's degree in Audit, Environment and Quality, along with project management certifications (PMP, Scrum Master, PMP-BA). Additionally, she has completed various training programs focused on hydrogen,  fuel cells, new powertrains and other related topics. Session Highlights: Discover innovations that are transforming energy distribution Seize the chance to lead in grid technology and revolutionize your strategies Speakers: Dr. Alexander Rentschler, FoA “Fiel of Action” lead Resilient Grids & Reliability Introduction: Dr. Alexander Rentschler is a distinguished electrical engineer with over 20 years of experience in power generation and transmission. Known for the overall development of FACTS & HVDC and setting the technology strategy for transmission, he has been instrumental in preparing the SE’s portfolio for the energy transition. Educational Background: Dr. Alexander Rentschler holds a PhD in Electrical Power Engineering from the Technical University of Darmstadt. His academic career also includes several patents, conference papers & he is actively involved in standards and regulations at European level. Simona Rossetti, VP Grid Technologies Sales Europe​, Siemens Energy Introduction: Simona Rossetti is a distinguished executive leader with over 20 years of global experience in the energy and digitalization sector. Renowned for creating Europe’s first Siemens Energy Cyber Security Operations Center (cSOC), she has contributed significantly to supporting grid operators, data centers, energy and industrial customers in their journey toward decarbonization. Educational Background: Simona Rossetti holds a master degree in Telecommunication and Electrical engineering from Politecnico di Milano University and from Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. Her academic journey also includes Executive Leadership certifications from INSEAD, The Business School for the World and THNK School of Creative Leadership as well as a Six Sigma Green Belt certification. 14:30 – 15:00 Workshop Summaries Get a quick summary of all our workshops with streamlined recaps. 15:00 - 15:20 Coffee Break Enjoy a coffee break at Cafe Energy and Time Out. 15:20 – 16:00 Empowering Tomorrow: Panel Discussion on Energy Transition and Innovation Panel discussion featuring: Frederikke Toemmergaard (Moderator) – Head of Communication EU Hub Prof. Daniel Banuti - Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (ICBs academia partner), Director of Thermal Energy Technology and Safety Stefan Besser – Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz Andreas Jagtoyen – Equinor ASA, SVP Renewables and Low Carbon Kathleen O'Brien – CTO and SVP Innovation, SIemens Energy (see bio in Setting the Tone) Juha Pankakoski – Executive Vice President, Global Functions, Siemens Energy (see bio in Opening Remarks) Speakers: Frederikke Toemmergaard, Head of Communications Europe, Siemens Energy Introduction: Frederikke Tømmergaard has 20 years’ experience leading communications and corporate affairs for global companies around the world. Prior to joining the Siemens Energy family six years ago, she spent eight years with play and creativity at LEGO. Educational Background: Frederikke holds a degree in Journalism from the Danish School of Media and Journalism and also studied Law at the University of Aarhus. Prof. Dr.-Ing. Daniel Banuti, Professor for Hydrogen-based Energy Systems and  Director of the Institute of Thermal Energy Technology and Safety at the  Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) Introduction: Daniel Banuti has more than 20 years of experience in research of thermo-fluids for propulsion and power. Renowned for his work on injection, heat transfer and combustion of supercritical fluids and hydrogen, he has contributed significantly to understanding and modeling of high-pressure flows. Educational Background: Daniel Banuti holds a PhD in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Stuttgart, and a MSc in Mechanical Engineering from RWTH Aachen. Career: Daniel Banuti has held a number of research positions, including: Senior Scientist at the German Aerospace Center (DLR), Spacecraft department PostDoc positions at Stanford, Caltech, and the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Assistant Professor at the University of New Mexico, Albuquerque Stefan Besser, Head of Division IIB5: Energy Research in the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK) Introduction: Stefan Besser is an economist with over 25 years of experience in Governmental Affairs. He worked on serval topics related to Climate- and Energy policy. Since August 2023 he is leading the division in charge for the implementation of the BMWK-Programme for Applied Energy Research. Andreas Jagtoyen, Senior Vice President - Technology Management: Renewables and Low Carbon, Equinor Introduction: Andreas Jagtøyen has more than 30 years of global operational experience within the maritime and energy industries. Before joining Equinor, Andreas held various senior leadership positions across the Kongsberg Group, focusing on instrumentation, automation, simulations and digital transformation. Additionally, he has been part of co-funding, building and leading software and technology start-up companies. Educational Background: Andreas Jagtøyen holds a B.Sc. in Computer Science from Sør-Trøndelag University College (HiST). His academic journey also include being part of the prestigious Solstrandprogrammet leadership development program offered by AFF (Administrativt Forskningsfond). 16:00 – 16:15 Closing Closing Remarks from Jaap van Kampen Jaap van Kampen and Anna Jahnke-Gloekler. 16:15 – 18:00 Expert Tours and Socializing Experience the ICB and network with colleagues during ICB tours led by experts from Siemens Energy. Event resources Conference Agenda PDF (596 KB) ICB Expert Tour Information PDF (639 KB) ICB Site Map PDF (975 KB) Have questions? Contact us Anna Jahnke-Gloekler Event Organisation anna.jahnke@siemens-energy.com Siemens Energy Innovation Center Berlin innovationcenter.berlin@siemens-energy.com Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025