connect2evolve - a Siemens Energy venture Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Scale electrification of decentralized areas with connect2evolve Partner with Siemens Energy to drive remote electrification through our digital platform Nearly 770 million people are without access to electricity. It is time to change this course. Electrification is key in promoting economic development, education and healthcare within a community. We at connect2evolve, a venture of Siemens Energy, are building a digital platform to identify, assess, streamline and bundle electrification projects in remote areas to enable private sector investment. Our vision Electrify 50 million people and businesses in the next 10 years. Our mission Digitalize and scale decentralized clean electrification projects. Watch this video to learn more about our mission Become our partner at connect2evolve We are looking for dedicated partners who share our vision and are ready to invest in the electrification in remote areas: connect2evolve is a venture of Siemens Energy. We already signed MOUs for co-creation with two customers. Contact us How connect2evolve operates connect2evolve is developing a web platform to enhance the development of clean, decentralized electrification projects. Our platform bundles these projects to bridge the financial gap by connecting project developers with impact investors. Data-driven project lifecycle management It's identify, gather, and analyze all relevant data throughout the entire electrification project lifecycle. This process begins with identifying energy demands, forming the basis for asset sizing. It includes monitoring of installed assets and specific KPIs of the benefiting community, demonstrating real impact and contributions to the UN SDGs. Advanced data integration By combining geo-spatial, statistical, and demographic data, it develops an algorithm to identify opportunities, impact, success factors, potential risks, and costs of remote electrification projects. Economies of scale and efficiency By bundling individual projects into larger portfolios, we enable economies of scale at the component level and for operation and maintenance. By digitizing as many process steps as possible, connect2evolve reduces costs and increases efficiency. Connecting developers and investors Facilitate the connection between project developers and investors, making the implementation of these projects feasible. connect2evolve scales decentralized electrification Lean and cost efficient project development to enable positive business case Increase process & data transparency to build trust between project developer and investor Bundle project to portfolios to enable private sector investment connect2evolve supports the Sustainable Development Goal SDG7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all. The connect2evolve platform enables socio-economic development by  additionally contributing to these energy-related SDG‘s: SDG1 “No poverty” SDG3 “Good health” SDG4 “Quality education” SDG8 “Decent work and economic growth” SGD11 “Sustainable communities” and SDG13 “Climate action” Sylvia Niewiem sylvia.niewiem@siemens-energy.com Sylvia Niewiem Yohannes Ghermay yohannes.ghermay@siemens-energy.com Yohannes Ghermay Tanja Romahn tanja.romahn@siemens-energy.com Tanja Romahn Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025