Centrifugal and reciprocating compressor training Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Compressor, steam turbine, and gas turbine training from our industrial experts Well-trained operations and maintenance personnel are vital to operating your plant safely, efficiently and productively. By fully utilizing our expert knowledge from millions of equivalent operating hours of data, advanced component models, and with more than 100 years of Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) service experience, we can improve your in-house capabilities to help you get the most out of your equipment. Our instructors have decades of experience in training our customers on how to safely operate and maintain Siemens Energy and Dresser-Rand compressors and turbines. Training is offered virtually or in the classroom through lectures, hands-on programs in the lab and training centers, and at your location. Learn how to operate and maintain reciprocating compressors , centrifugal compressors , steam turbines and gas turbines. Watch our Duisburg Training Center video Our training courses are designed for operators, mechanics, maintenance supervisors and reliability engineers who work on Siemens Energy and/or Dresser-Rand equipment. Whether introductory level or advanced, we have many classes to choose from to enhance your core competencies in turbomachinery. We also customize training to your company's specific needs, based on your drawings, systems, and simulating your gas turbine or compression software. Start your training with the fundamentals, gain an understanding of the model variations, dive deeper into the operating equipment, troubleshooting, and preventative maintenance. The hands-on portion requires you to sequentially disassemble, inspect, measure, record and reassemble in a safe manner, with our instructors guiding you along the way. You learn how to navigate and interpret the service manual to determine procedures, specifications and torque valves. Download Houston training catalog Flexible, customized, long term training programs for rotating equipment We provide tailor-made Long Term Training Programs (LTP) for your equipment, either at a location of your choice or at our purpose-built Training Center in Duisburg, Germany. With LTP training options extending up to five years, we can provide a fully customizable plan that can be flexibly adjusted at any time, according to your equipment and resource requirements. You can choose for your training to be part of a standard LTP or a dedicated, independent training program. We offer a wide variety of LTP training approaches globally, to suit your individual needs: Training at your location - both classroom and hands-on training Hands on training at our state-of-the-art Duisburg Training Center Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering - in partnership with the University of Duisburg / Essen Choose your training topics, content and delivery approach - the choice is yours..... Download LTP training flyer Experience the simulation room in the Alberto Schirmer Houston Training and Competency Institute When training in the simulation room, you feel like you are operating a turbine under realistic operating conditions.  Practice starting and stopping the machinery; add faults to give you the opportunity to trouble shoot for the first line fault training. Global training options Technical training is essential for staying competitive in today’s fast-paced industry. Our courses are designed to provide the perfect balance of theoretical insights and hands-on experience, empowering your team with the skills and expertise they need to excel. We’re here to help you achieve your goals, simplify daily operations, and stay ahead in the evolving world of energy technology. Explore all training options available here Get answers: FAQs on Compressor training What is a compressor training course? A compressor training course is a program designed to educate operators, mechanics, maintenance supervisors, and reliability engineers on how to safely and efficiently operate and maintain compressors. What are the types of compressor training courses available? There are several types of compressor training courses available, each catering to different aspects and types of compressors. These courses typically cover reciprocating compressors and centrifugal compressors, with topics ranging from basic operational principles to advanced troubleshooting and preventative maintenance. What do compressor training courses cover? Compressor training courses are offered both virtually and in-person and include lectures, hands-on training in labs and training centers, and on-site training at the customer's location. The hands-on component involves disassembling, inspecting, measuring, recording, and reassembling equipment under instructor guidance, with a focus on using service manuals to follow procedures and specifications. The training can be customized to meet the company's specific needs, incorporating their drawings, systems, and software simulations. Latest articles Modernization options for turbocompressors Weighing modernization options for legacy turbocompressors Read more Leveraging remote diagnostic services in compressors RDS to detect performance degradation in variable-speed centrifugal compressors Read more Partners in training Learning the ins and outs..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025