Protection & synchronization (Omnivise electrical solutions) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Protection and synchronization Protect your assets and secure stable operation of your plant When components need safeguarding, protection systems provide fast and reliable fault detection and reaction. Protection systems prevent potential causes of major damages such as shutdowns and the incorrect synchronization of generator to grid. Unfortunately, many installed systems are no longer adequately able to cope with protection tasks and their maintenance is becoming increasingly difficult. Our unit protection and synchronization solution allows for the replacement of the unit and power system protection, as well as the replacement of the synchronization system. The package uses modern grid protection methodologies that satisfy the most sophisticated requirements when it comes to response precision. Our unit protection and synchronization solution complies with the latest grid requirements and is based on special hardware, redundant configuration, and instrumentation that incorporate diverse-mode measurements. When component protection is needed... ... Siemens Energy electrical protection solutions secure quick and sure recognition and reaction to failures. When grid synchronization is requested ... Siemens Energy synchronization solutions secure trouble-free connection to the grid. Benefits of our optimized power system protection Multiple communication protocols Modular hardware and simple wiring design Flexible arrangement of signals Easy configuration and operation Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our products. If you have any questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Omnivise Electrical Solutions Read more Omnivise Digital Solutions Redefining energy – together Read more Read more 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025