Grid expectations: strengthening electricity infrastructure Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Today’s electricity grid isn’t ready for tomorrow We’re supporting companies and countries to strengthen and expand critical infrastructure Making renewables fully deliverable Today’s electricity grids are not equipped to handle a major rise in renewable energy. By 2030, the global length of transmission lines needs to increase by almost 2.5m km, and distribution networks by over 16m km. Making progress with our customers We’re on a sustained drive to help our customers make the transmission of energy more sustainable. Almost 1400 installations of products from our F-gas-free Blue portfolio are now in operation worldwide, saving 2.5m tons of CO 2 e emissions. " As the demand for renewables power generation increases, we need to expand and modernize our transmission grids. If not, renewable energy cannot reach its full potential” Tim Holt, Member of the Executive Board, Siemens Energy Specific challenges and solutions We focus on enabling our customers to upgrade electrical grids in two ways: Increasing robustness The existing infrastructure needs to be made more resilient and flexible to cope with fluctuations in energy supply and ever-increasing demand. Our highly efficient Flexible AC Transmission Systems (FACTS) play an important role in balancing these fluctuations and maintaining robustness. We also offer the world’s most sustainable portfolio of grid technologies, including high-voltage clean-air switchgear and transformers, HVDC services and digital solutions. Expanding storage Energy storage systems are crucial to the energy transition, ensuring 24/7 availability of electricity from renewable sources. We are developing a variety of storage solutions, including batteries and green hydrogen. In addition, our HVDC technology makes possible the exchange of electricity across borders, enabling different national power grids to support each other. Energy transition targets We have definite aims for strengthening the power grids: By offering an innovative portfolio to enable the creation of a transmission network strong enough and large enough to meet the demands of the future By actively advocating the reduction and acceleration of approval procedures to speed up the expansion of grids Shifting away from SF6 SF 6 – the gas most commonly used in switchgear – is over 25,000 times more climate-hostile than CO 2 . The Blue portfolio from Siemens Energy uses natural-origin gases instead, meaning zero harmful emissions. Get clued up on clean air here: Read more Stabilizing renewable power The worldwide power sector has witnessed significant disruption, growth, and change in recent years. Siemens Energy has developed modern, flexible, high capacity grid stabilizing solutions. Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025