Cybersecurity Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Cybersecurity for the oil and gas industry Assess. Protect. Respond. Contact us Why is cybersecurity important for oil and gas? Like critical industries everywhere, oil and gas operations – upstream, midstream, and downstream – make prime targets for cyber threats of all kinds. Sources of those threats are increasingly criminal enterprises, state actors, and so-called hacktivists with political agendas. That’s in addition to solitary hackers using powerful tools readily available on the Dark Web. Make your offshore operations cyber secure and reliable Modern offshore operations are highly complex, generating tens of thousands of data points and transmitting them to onshore control centers across multiple types of networks. Offshore facilities also include technologies from many suppliers that interface with the main process control system, each with their own cybersecurity profile.  Learn how to navigate this complexity in our webcast with World Oil magazine! Watch the recording Register here Whitepapers and articles Not rocket science Cybersecurity challenges can be formidable. However, they are not insurmountable, nor are they rocket science to solve. The good news is that downstream oil and gas companies can adopt the straightforward, four-step approach that Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts and managed services team have successfully used to close vulnerability gaps for customers worldwide in recent years. Read the article Adopting a holistic approach to cybersecurity As the energy industry undergoes digital transformation, cyber threats are becoming a material, financial and operational risk. Convergence of operational technology (OT) and information technology (IT) has opened new pathways and attack surfaces for malicious actors to exploit, posing serious concerns for stability and security of energy infrastructure Read the article We provide a complete portfolio of cybersecurity solutions Assess and plan Assessments Cyber Gap Assessment Vulnerability Assessment Baseline Compliance Assessment Security processes Incident Response Plan preparation and testing Disaster Recovery Plan preparation and testing Protect DCS Security Controls Secure Architecture Device Hardening Malware Pattern Updates Application Whitelisting Additional  Controls Secure Remote Access Next Gen. Firewall Detect and respond Asset Management Asset Inventory and Change Monitoring Vulnerability & Patch Management ICS Patch Management Advanced Vulnerability Management Network Monitoring ICS Security Event Monitoring ICS Change Monitoring Network Detection Network Intrusion Detection System Incident Response Retainer Network Anomaly Detection Learn more about cybersecurity Ensuring robust cyber defense for endpoint energy assets Companies across the hydrocarbon supply chain recognize the growing threat of sophisticated, malicious cyberattacks. Many companies continue to struggle to defend early-generation and remote operating assets, such as older compressor stations, which were engineered well before the widespread adoption of digital industrial control systems. As a result, these assets are vulnerable to long-term exposure to emerging cyber-risks, without the ability to be patched easily or updated quickly with the latest security defenses. Download the PDF The state of cybersecurity in the oil and gas industry Learn how US companies in the oil and gas industry are addressing cybersecurity risks in the operational technology (OT) environment. According to the findings, the deployment of cybersecurity measures in the industry isn’t keeping pace with the growth of digitalization in oil and gas operations. In fact, just 35 percent of respondents rate their organization’s OT cyber readiness as high. With most respondents describing their organization as having low to medium cybersecurity readiness, 68 percent of respondents say their operations have had at least one security compromise in the past year, resulting in the loss of confidential information or OT disruption. Read the study News and Articles A new arena of cyber protection In this Hydrocarbon Engineering article, our Global Head of Cybersecurity for Oil and Gas,... Read more Cybersecurity for oil and gas operators In this Hydrocarbon Engineering article, our Global Head of Cybersecurity for Oil and Gas,... Read more Two sides of the same coin Digitalization and cybersecurity go hand-in-hand when it comes to protecting assets agains... Read more Keeping a system safe Artificial intelligence and security analytics hold the key to pipeline cybersecurity. Read more Cybersecurity visibility and resilience: keys to protecting HSE and margins Read more Contact our Experts Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025