SGT-A05 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGT-A05 gas turbine Proven technology for higher efficiency and performance Based on proven aeroderivative design, the SGT-A05 gas turbines are flexible, compact and lightweight designs that are ideally suited for decentralized power generation offering high efficiency and fast start-up capabilities. The SGT-A05 gas turbine variants generate electrical power outputs between 4 and 6 MW for applications such as base load, co-generation, combined heat and power, mobile power and emergency power. Explore our interactive gas turbine portfolio template-360-siemens Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Highlights of the SGT-A05 (Industrial 501-K) Fits all climates and environmental conditions The SGT-A05 is proven to operate in various challenging conditions and locations around the world, including the North Sea, West Africa, Siberia, Brazil, Alaska, Southeast Asia and the desert regions of the Middle East. The SGT-A05 engine has been shock-qualified to Mil-S-901C, which makes it particularly suitable for areas with frequent or severe seismic activity. Excellent fuel flexibility The SGT-A05 is known for its high fuel flexibility, which will accommodate a wide variety of possible application scenarios and requirements. Fuels include, but are not limited to natural gas, liquid fuel (or both) and mid to low BTU gas fuels. Fuel system options include dual fuel, steam and water injection. Dry Low Emissions (DLE) technology is also available. Fast start-up Thanks to advanced engineering, the SGT-A05 gas turbine provides fast start-up capability: You will have full power available within 60 seconds in all conditions. This includes hot restarts, with no need to go into idle condition. The SGT-A05 engine also offers black start capability. Three combustion systems available to meet your requirements Three popular, proven combustion systems that enhance profitability are available, based on your needs: - Standard combustion systems operate on liquid or gas fuel - Wet low emissions combustion systems utilize nozzle steam or water - Dry low emissions combustion systems for gas-fueled installations achieve emission levels of 25 vppm NOₓ and 50 vppm CO Core engine Package solutions Service Fuels Emissions Ingenious design to the core The SGT-A05 (Industrial 501-K) gas turbine engine is an aero-derived engine based on the T-56 turboprop, which is recognized for its reliability and durability in the Lockheed Martin C-130 Hercules transport, E2C Hawkeye, P-3 Orion and other widely used aircraft. The aeroderivative design of the SGT-A05 series engine provides a lightweight, modular product that helps lower operating costs through improved fuel consumption, extended hot section life and ease of maintenance. Designed for power generation, and oil and gas applications, features of the SGT-A05 gas turbine include: Lightweight modular construction Ease of field repair Virtually limitless starts and stops Wide range of fuels in all ambient conditions High electrical and cycle efficiency Advanced engineering thanks to 50 years of experience The SGT-A05 combines proven technology, state-of-the-art materials and technological solutions. Turnkey delivery Core engine and auxiliary equipment are factory pre-tested prior to delivery. Packaged for success – Packages for industrial power generation, O&G power generation and mobile power unit solution The SGT-A05 (Industrial 501-K) packages are designed with noise suppression, access doorways, as well as safety interlocks supporting the health and safety of the operation and maintenance staff. The packages are compact and easily transported, installed and maintained. For power generation applications like cogeneration and emergency power applications, the package features include: Lubricating oil system On-skid fuel system Several types of start systems are available depending on your requirements Sturdy, but small baseplate for a lightweight footprint Gas turbine enclosure Electrical auxiliaries meeting local electrical standards as needed Water wash system SGT-A05 oil and gas power generation package A single-shaft version is available for constant speed operations in onshore and offshore configurations, e.g., Refinery Emergency power generation Standby power generation SGT-A05 industrial power generation package Our current offering includes variants of the proved SGT-A05 KB5 and SGT-A05 KB7 gas turbines. SGT-A05 variants are fulfilling the requirements of a wide spectrum of applications in terms of efficiency, reliability, flexibility and environmental compatibility. Mobile power solution The trailer-mounted unit is driven to its installation site, requiring minimal civil works preparation. From arrival to site to full power in under four hours, the light, aero-derivative SGT-A05 mobile power unit is ideal for rapid deployment. Complete customer care for the SGT-A05 gas turbine Our comprehensive portfolio of services provides low life cycle cost and optimum performance throughout the turbine’s life cycle: Long Term Programs (LTP), overhaul service, field service, spare parts, service exchange, remote diagnostic service, and modernization and upgrades. The modular, compact design of the SGT-A05 facilitates on-site maintenance, since the modules can be quickly replaced.  A direct core engine exchange is possible and can be executed in as little as 12 hours. The proven lightweight industrial design allows an easy and economical transport. Simple, inexpensive to maintain Rugged, reliable performance with up to seven years baseload duty between full overhaul Over 98% demonstrated availability/reliability Lightweight and aeroderivative design Reliable, easy installation and maintenance Easy on-site maintenance due to core engine or module replacement. Long maintenance intervalls The SGT-A05 demonstrates reliable performance with up to 7 years of baseload operation between major overhauls. Fuel flexibility matters The SGT-A05 engine is designed to operate on a wide variety of fuels. Fuels include, but are not limited to, natural gas, liquid fuel (typically DF-2 or equivalent) and mid to low BTU gas fuels. Fuel system options also include dual fuel, steam and water injection. Dry Low Emissions (DLE) technology is also available. On-skid fuel system: The on-skid fuel system includes all components needed to control fuel during start up and operation Clean, flexible operation: The SGT-A05 DLE combustor burns a great variety of gaseous fuels and offers clean combustion with low emissions. The engine, equipped with WLE burners, is capable to burn up to 15 vol% of hydrogen (H 2 ). Low emissions as a gateway to our customers The well-proven and reliable Dry Low Emissions (DLE) system offers clean combustion for gas-fueled engines with low emissions for power generation applications. It achieves emission levels of 25 vppm NOₓ and 50 vppm CO. The Wet Low Emissions (WLE) system utilizes nozzle steam or water injection for liquid-fuel operation in order to meet the most stringent environmental requirements. Clean combustion at flexible load: The proven standard combustion system can be operated on liquid or gaseous fuel, or with a dual-fuel option providing low emissions at part and base load. Advanced lean-burn combustion technology: The Dry Low Emissions (DLE) engineering solution reduces emissions without the need for water injection. Technical data for the SGT-A05 Simple cycle power generation Physical dimensions Performance data for simple cycle power generation SGT-A05 KB5S SGT-A05 KB7S SGT-A05 KB7HE Power output 4.0 MW(e) 5.4 MW(e) 5.8 MW(e) Fuel* Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Frequency 50/60 Hz 50/60 Hz 50/60 Hz Gross efficiency 29.7% 32.3% 32.7% Heat rate 12,137 kJ/kWh (11,504 Btu/kWh) 11,146 kJ/kWh (10,570 Btu/kWh) 10,889 kJ/kWh (10,281 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 14,200 rpm 14,600 rpm 14,600 rpm Pressure ratio 10.3 : 1 14.2 : 1 14.4 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 15.4 kg/s (34.0 lb/s) 21.3 kg/s (47.0 lb/s) 21.4 kg/s (47.1 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 560 °C (1,040 °F) 495 °C (925 °F) 520 °C (965 °F) NOₓ emissions ≤ 25 ppmvd at 15% O2 on fuel gas (with DLE) ≤ 25 ppmvd at 15% O2 on fuel gas (with DLE) ≤ 25 ppmvd at 15% O2 on fuel gas (with DLE) *Other fuels on request; automatic changeover from primary to secondary fuel at any load Physical dimensions and weight Power generation package Approx. weight 35,000 kg (85,980 lb) Length 9 m (29.5 ft) Width 2.7 m (8.9 ft) Height 3.1 m (10.2 ft) Note: Above dimensions exclude inlet filter housing and exhaust stack. For power generation, the AC generator is included. The SGT-A05 is suitable for the following applications and industries: Find out more about our gas turbine offerings In our download section, you can find brochures, technical papers, and more. Or you can contact us directly for specific inquiries. Brochures Gas turbine portfolio (interactive PDF) PDF (18 MB) Download SGT-A05 brochure PDF (8 MB) Download Articles and Papers Technical papers Download Poster SGT-A05 PDF (179 KB) Download Experience class leading gross electrical efficiency performance With more than 55 years of operating experience, the SGT-A05 is proven in combined heat and power plant applications as well as emergency/standby applications. More than 1,675 units have been sold with more than 127 million hours of operating experience. Royal Aberdeen Infirmary, Scotland Customer: National Health Service (NHS), Grampian Solution: 1 x SGT-A05 KB7S gas turbine (packaged by Centrax) The generator set package produces 5.5MW of electricity plus 12 tonnes of steam per hour, ensuring the availability of power essential for the safety-critical services provided across the Europe's largest medical teaching hospital complex. Reduction in CO2 emissions by 17% Hera: Multiutility Company, Italy Customer: Gruppo HERA Solution: 2 x SGT-A05 KB5S gas turbine (packaged by Centrax) Increased efficiency to 51% Emission reduction by 21,000kg NOx and 2,500 tonnes of CO2 each thermal year. That’s equivalent to taking over 500 cars off the road. Sellafield Ltd., UK Customer: Sellafield Ltd. Solution:  1 x SGT-A05 KB7S, 1 x SGT-A05 KB5 (packaged by Centrax) Security of electricity supply Fast start-up in the event of grid failure Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025