Less CO2: Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition Press release February 25, 2025 Berlin Siemens Energy is supplying two gas turbines and related components for the Kuo Kuang 2 power plant in Taiwan. With a planned electrical capacity of 1,200 MW, the plant will play a key role in meeting the growing energy needs of Taiwan's booming industrial and technology sector. The plant will also support Taiwan's energy transition strategy, which includes phasing out coal and nuclear, while massively expanding renewable and low-carbon energy sources. Taiwan boasts a robust industrial base in electronics, engineering, and particularly semiconductors. About 60 percent of all microchips are produced in Taiwan, making a stable power supply essential. With electricity demand expected to rise by 12-13% by 2030, driven largely by AI, Taiwan is expanding clean power generation and upgrading the grid to balance reliability and sustainability. The commissioning of the new power plant will allow for older, CO 2 -intensive plants to be taken off the grid. Modern natural gas power plants emit up to two-thirds less greenhouse gases than coal or oil-fired plants. Siemens Energy is a long-term partner with Kuo Kuang Power Co. Ltd. and is already responsible for the smooth operation and maintenance of the Kuo Kuang gas-fired power plant unit 1, which was commissioned in 2003, under an O&M contract. Kuo Kuang 2 is the next combined cycle power project for Siemens Energy in Taiwan after the recent successful completion of the Sun Ba 2 project, a 1,100 MW plant. Karim Amin, member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board and responsible for the Gas Services Business Area, said: “The Kuo Kuang 2 project is a continuation of our success story in Kuo Kuang 1 and a testament to the trust that customers place in our products and services. Our cutting-edge HL gas turbines will enhance the power generation efficiency and reduce CO 2 emissions. This technology, when paired with renewable energies, enables rapid power plant start-up, ensuring a reliable energy supply for Taiwan." Kuo Kuang 2 is being built together with CTCI Corporation as the consortium partner responsible for the engineering, procurement and construction of the plant. Siemens Energy's scope of supply is a complete power island solution including two SGT6-9000HL gas turbines, one SST6-5000 steam turbine, three SGEN6-2000P generators and the Omnivise T3000 control system. Contact Sabine Sill Press Spokesperson Gas Services sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com +49 173 7196783 Contact Theo Wu Press Spokesperson China taiyu.wu@siemens-energy.com + 886 903055020 Download Press Release Less CO2: Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition February 25, 2025 PDF (97 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. Read more Read less Read more June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks December 15, 2022 Berlin First tests for Power-to-Hydrogen-to-Power HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully completed November 17, 2022 Munich/Stuttgart Prospects for using hydrogen in gas power plants are becoming tangible See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025