Siemens Energy to power China’s Greater Bay Area with low-emission power generation technologies Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to power China’s Greater Bay Area with low-emission power generation technologies Press release March 29, 2022 Munich 100th H-class gas turbine sold worldwide Four advanced combined cycle power units support a sustainable energy supply in a major economic area Siemens Energy has recently entered into agreements separately with Guangdong Energy Group Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Energy Group Co., Ltd. to deliver a total of four H-class combined cycle power units to their power plants located in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) in southern China. Upon completion, the new and updated power plants will help meet the growing power demand in the region with efficient and future-proof power generation technologies. In addition, with the one-hundredth unit sold, the projects also mark a milestone in the success story of the SGT-8000H gas turbine. The picture shows an overview of the 100 H-class gas turbines worldwide. Under the agreement with Guangdong Energy, Siemens Energy will deliver a 675-MW combined cycle power generation unit, including a SGT5-8000H gas turbine, a steam turbine, two generators and related auxiliary equipment, and long-term maintenance service for the plant in Guangzhou owned by Guangdong Yuehua Power Co., Ltd. The existing coal-fired power plant will be transformed into a modern, higher-efficiency gas-fired plant, and this will reduce carbon dioxide emission by more than 60 percent. The plant will generate 2.3 billion kilowatt-hours of power annually and is expected to go into commercial operation in mid-2023. The agreement with Shenzhen Energy includes supplying three H-class combined cycle power units for the Phase II project at Dongbu power plant and the upgrade project at Mawan power plant. The scope includes three SGT5-8000H gas turbines, three SST-5000 steam turbines, three SGen5-3000W generators, and auxiliary systems. The two projects, both located in Shenzhen, are scheduled to go into operation by the end of 2023 and in mid-2024 respectively. The annual total power generation of the two plants is expected to exceed six billion kilowatt-hours. “We’re achieving a significant milestone with the one-hundredth H-class gas turbine sold,” said Karim Amin, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG. “We’re proud to see that our strategic partnerships with Guangdong Energy and Shenzhen Energy are now bearing fruit: We’ll be working together to make tangible contributions to the Greater Bay Area and the low-carbon development of China.” With a population of over 70 million, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA) is among the most dynamic regions in China. GBA aims to grow into a global sci-tech innovation center and a role model of sustainable development for the country. In December 2019, Siemens Energy and Shenzhen Energy forged a strategic partnership in the areas of R&D and smart and green energy. With 88 turbines in operation on four continents and over 2.5 million operating hours, the SGT-8000H is the market leader in its class. Since its launch, the output rating of the gas turbine has grown from 375 megawatts (MW) to 450 MW, with efficiency of over 62 percent in combined cycle operation. The turbine’s high combined cycle efficiency, low NOx emissions, and industry-leading operational flexibility – which includes load-following capability of up to 80 MW/minute – make the turbine ideal for a wide range of applications, from simple cycle peaking and combined heat and power (CHP) to baseload power plants. The SGT-8000H is also capable of Hydrogen co-firing, which reduces its CO2 emissions even more. Links Further information on Siemens Energy’s SGT-8000 gas turbine Contact Kerstin Schirmer Siemens Energy kerstin.schirmer@siemens-energy.com +49 (172) 2669588 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (100 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025