Reactors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Shunt reactors and series reactors Welcome to a world of real allrounders and grid trouble-shooters Shunt reactors and series reactors are used widely in AC networks to limit overvoltage or shortcut current in power transmission. With a growing number of high-voltage overhead lines in a fast-changing energy environment, both shunt and series reactors play a key role in stabilizing network systems and increasing grid efficiency. They are available as series reactors, variable and fixed shunt reactors with a rated power from ≤10 MVAr to 300 MVAr (33 kV to 800 kV). Reactors of Siemens Energy are highly economically efficient and enhance grid stability Reactors from Siemens Energy come with benefits at various levels to help grid operators achieve and maintain a reliable and secure power supply system. For over 100 years, we have closely cooperated with energy providers and grid operators. Drawing on these decades of experience, we have tailored our processes − from consulting to design, from manufacturing to testing and after-sales services − to meet the needs of our customers and their individually customized units. Siemens Energy manufactures the full range of reactors for all customer needs in a variety of application areas. With the increase of renewable and distributed power generation reactors – and variable shunt reactors in particular – play a significant role in today’s energy landscape with its higher fluctuation in power feed-in. Reactors of Siemens Energy are compact and robust with stable performance over the complete service life. Customers can optionally choose features like low-noise/low-loss version, extended 80%-regulation range and green design options. Fixed vs. variable shunt reactors: choose the designing which fits best While fixed shunt reactors are designed for defined system condition and are cost-effective, variable shunt reactors (VSR) offer flexibility and efficiency in grids dealing with fluctuating power flows. VSRs adjust reactor power rating to actual needs, leading to lower losses and noise emissions, making them the ideal choice for networks experiencing continuous fluctuations. The decision to opt for a fixed SHR often has technical reasons, but the - admittedly more substantial - investment in a variable shunt reactor does pay off: With increasing load fixed shunt reactors will overcompensate the voltage increase, resulting in an overall voltage drops, while variable shunt reactors always compensate accurately and adjust to the current load situation. Customer benefits: unparalleled quality and efficiency With Siemens Energy, you are not just investing in a product but a partnership. We offer in-house grid consulting to help you find the most cost-efficient solution for your grid. Our reactors are manufactured under the highest quality standards and are designed to be compact, resulting in lower costs for substation construction and increased grid capacity. Why Siemens Energy: your partner in excellence and efficiency Siemens Energy prides itself on a long-standing history of providing reliable and precision-engineered solutions. Our reactor design process is powered by cutting-edge software and simulation tools, ensuring a high success rate right from the first production run. With our reactors, you can maximize grid efficiency, thereby making Siemens Energy your trusted ally in navigating the global energy transition. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025