Engineering career: a journey to innovation & growth Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” by Kerstin Schirmer Career Joachim Nordin is an experienced mechanical engineer, living near Finspång, Sweden, with his wife and three children. He plays a crucial role in advancing technology for hydrogen and other green fuels in gas turbines. Whether he's wearing safety glasses, a vest, or office clothes at his desk, Joachim's insatiable curiosity drives him to develop the best technical solutions. Joachim has worked for the customer “Stadtwerke Leipzig” on how the hydrogen capable SGT-800 gas turbines from Finspång fits into the future energy landscape in Germany. His work isn't just about technology; it's about understanding what the customer truly wants and pushing the boundaries of green technology. Joachim embodies the spirit of curiosity. Reflecting on his childhood, he shares, "Since I grew up tinkering with stuff, I wasn't really satisfied with the toys I got, so I might have done adjustments to them to improve the remote-controlled car." This innate drive to improve and innovate has been a constant in his life. Read in the interview, how he balances a demanding career with a vibrant family life, while contributing to sustainable energy solutions. Explore jobs What does a typical workday as an experienced mechanical engineer look like for you? My workdays are quite varied and flexible. Typically, I collaborate with local colleagues in Finspång on ongoing R&D projects and future development opportunities. I also have meetings with global colleagues involved in hydrogen and green fuels development, explore partnership opportunities with clients, and apply for public funding to accelerate our decarbonization efforts. Additionally, I present our achievements and capabilities in hydrogen and green fuels to clients, learning about their decarbonization needs and what brings value to them. What are you most proud of in your work as an experienced engineer? I'm particularly proud of our company's commitment to advancement, both in technology and customer support. We've made significant investments in technology and products that are crucial for future energy systems, including sustainable fuels like hydrogen, HVO, and methanol. One project I'm especially proud of is when we received public funding from the Swedish Energy Agency for the development of hydrogen-fueled turbines. This validates that we are developing the right technology for the future. We’re working with the hydrogen-ready concept for gas turbines. So, you can order it today, buy a powerplant from us that is prebuilt to be upgraded for hydrogen operation in the future. As it is in the “Heizkraftwerk Süd” power plant in Germany. The new district heating power plant in Leipzig has two SGT-800 gas turbine packages from Finspång. The plant is hydrogen-ready. The long-term goal is to operate the facility with 100 percent hydrogen. It is a very satisfying feeling working with decarbonization and being part of unlocking the solutions needed for sustainable energy systems. I’m proud to go home to my kids and look them in the eye with the feeling that I’m making a contribution to a cleaner future. Joachim Nordin is proud to be an engineer pioneering decarbonization with green fuels for gas turbines in Finspang, Sweden. Kids, career, or an adventure race. What is the biggest task? Joachim: (laughing) The biggest challenge is the combination. I really appreciate the flexibility that you’re given as an employee to organize your day. It’s always nice to be in the office, to meet colleagues, and have a stimulating working environment. At the same time, it is really great to be offered to work from home when needed, supporting family life with kids.  This versatility really helps with the life puzzle and fitting everything together in a smooth way. Last year, I participated in an adventure endurance race free of charge thanks to the generous wellness allowance provided each year to all employees in Sweden. It was really challenging - 70 kilometers in 24 hours with a 20-kilo backpack, cross-country. No genders, ages or weight classes. During the race, you get maps that show the checkpoints you must find and where the next station is. At each station, you are faced with different challenges that must be solved before you can move on. It is forbidden to use mobile phones, radio, your own maps or other aids and we made it to the finish line after about 22 hours. I think it’s the flexibility and the responsibility that make it possible. There is a huge opportunity to have a good work-life balance in combination with excellent career growth opportunities, flexible working hours, and parental leave. “ It makes me proud working with the energy transition and go home to my kids and look them in the eyes and feel that I’m making a contribution to a cleaner future. Joachim Nordin Engineer How would you describe the work culture? The work culture here is versatile and supportive. We have a strong and diverse global team, which makes for a very stimulating work environment. There's a lot of freedom to explore and grow, and our managers are very helpful. For example, Siemens Energy facilitates work-life balance through adaptable working hours and parental leave. The knowledge and know-how throughout the company is really inspiring for me. It's such a huge company, so you can learn about working with other cultures and colleagues that are really good at the technology they are working on. What does this look like in your daily work as an engineer? It is a lot of giving space in how we organize our workdays, which is great for balancing professional and personal responsibilities. We also have access to various health benefits and the possibility in participating in after work activities, everything from running races to concerts. Some of it free and some at only a small cost. This flexibility and assistance make it easier to manage the life puzzle and fit everything together smoothly. Can you give advice for aspiring Siemens Energy engineers? Go for it! You have nothing to lose. It's a great team, and there are excellent opportunities for career growth and personal development. The company really trusts its employees and provides the help needed to explore and grow in your career. Joachim and a colleague in the additive manufacturing workshop in Finspang pioneering decarbonization with green fuels for gas turbines. What makes Siemens Energy a unique employer in the energy industry? One key aspect is the versatility and responsibility given to employees. There's a huge opportunity for a good work-life balance combined with excellent career growth opportunities. Managers trust you with complex tasks and provide the support needed to solve them, which allows you to grow and develop in a very positive way. Discover more about working with Siemens Energy. Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Read more March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career January 6, 2025 3 min read Creating colorful new traditions at Siemens Energy See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025