Flex-Power Services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Advanced Operational Flexibility Flexible power plant services to help you stay competitive The global energy markets are changing and renewables are increasing, which leads to new operating profiles requiring higher operational flexibility for many fossil power plants. The higher flexibility is required to stabilize the grid and stay competitive by reducing costs. This leads to various customer requirements: Increased number of annual starts Fast ramp up and ramp down time Maximum output in the reserve time To help address these changing operational requirements, Siemens Energy has developed and continues to evolve the Advanced Operational Flexibility including Flex-Power Services™ and Omnivise Performance. If you need further assistance on Advanced Operational Flexibility, please contact us. Contact us Advanced Operational Flexibility Siemens Energy, as an experienced solution and service provider, steps in for a highly flexible plant operation offering a fully integrated portfolio. Our latest technical product developments are enhanced by digital performance services and includes improvements in different areas such as: Start and Stop Performance Start Readiness and Cool Down Demand Response Energy Management Emissions and Efficiency Advanced Operational Flexibility offers solutions from the Flex-Power Services™ and Omnivise Performance portfolio. To find out more about Omnivise Performance solutions focused on digital performance services, click here. Flex-Power Services™ for your power plant The Flex-Power Services™ portfolio includes products and solutions as well as studies and assessments to help adapt to changing operational requirements. Siemens Energy develops solutions to help enhance operational flexibility of power plants and its key components. These can be provided as a retrofit for the Siemens Energy service fleet and often be combined with other modernizations. Implementing these state-of-the-art features can help to increase power plant flexibility and retain or improve plant competitiveness in the changing energy market. Start and Stop Performance Start Readiness and Cool Down Demand Response Energy Management Emissions and Efficiency Start and Stop Performance Products and solutions supporting Power on Demand are intended to enhance Start and Stop Performance and can include upgrades designed to: decrease waiting times for water-steam cycle warm up decrease or even eliminate holding times increase ramp rates of ST and/or GT A shortened start-up or shutdown time may not only increase flexibility, but also support a reduction of fuel consumption and associated emissions in these operating conditions. Start Readiness & Cool Down Advanced preservation concepts and the ability to maintain a plant in a status which allows fast re-start even after multiple days of shutdown may greatly enhance flexibility and support better dispatch success. Reduced cool-down times may support faster access to components for inspections and repairs, thus supporting shorter outages. Advanced inspection and interval concepts can help to safeguard and enhance availability. Grid Services & Peak Power While on load, upgrades to enhance flexibility can include: Grid code studies (e.g. ENTSO-E) Load following capabilities (e. g. enhanced ramp rates) Grid Services, e. g. Primary and Secondary Frequency Response Peak Power Capabilities Energy Management Energy markets are becoming increasingly complex due to the influx of new generation assets like renewables, microgrids and the hybridization of traditional CCPPs with storage and other energy assets. All of which makes it more difficult for asset operators to quickly respond and optimize their generation. Solutions that manage the distribution of generation are needed to economically optimize plant operations: Dispatch optimization improving the energy management of your fleet through an optimized generation schedule Hybrid controller integration responds rapidly and automated to generation adjustments For more information on these Omnivise Performance solutions, please visit the ↗Omnivise Performance webpage. Emissions and Efficiency In energy markets with a volatile infeed from various generation sources, combined cycle power plants may find themselves in situations where they need to improve and monitor efficiency and emissions for minimum, part and base load. Upgrades and Performance Monitoring are intended for: - Improvement of efficiency especially in part load operation - Monitoring efficiency and emissions at minimum, part and base load Find out more in the factsheet This factsheet outlines all the possible products and solutions in the Flex-Power Services™ portfolio that can contribute to the flexibility and efficiency of your power plant. Learn more about the services and benefits of Start and Stop Performance, Start Readiness and Cool Down, Demand Response, Emissions and Efficiency such as Energy Management. Download Our reference projects Enabling more flexibility for the power plant Hamm-Uentrop power plant, Germany Start and Stop optimization solutions Boosted capabilities for warm-start, hot-start and fast shutdown Reduced emissions with upgrades Supporting adaptation to ever more volatile market environment Learn more From Baseload to Cycling Mainz-Wiesbaden power plant, Germany Enhanced operational flexibility for the combined cycle power plant Reduction of start-up time with Hot Start on the Fly to 27 minutes Optimal adaption to new requirements of the German energy market Download the white papers Maximizing power plant flexibility This new white paper explores how CCPPs can respond to current market trends by enhancing their operational flexibility to swiftly respond to market demands. Learn how operational profiles of CCPPs are changing due to the rise of renewable energy sources and strategies for optimizing CCPP flexibility, including improved start-up/shutdown processes and load gradients. Download From Base to Cycling Operation This paper uses the Mainz Wiesbaden Combined Cycle Power Plant as an example of a plant that has switched from base load to cycling mode as a result of renewable energy input into the grid. The content includes successfully implemented enhancements to improve the plant's operational flexibility. It also includes test results for possible future upgrades. Download Is your plant operation optimized for changing market demands? To help you determine the right solution from the Flex-Power Services™ portfolio ideal for your operational requirements, we conduct a Technical Plant Assessment. It provides detailed insights into the improvement potential for Operational flexibility Thermal performance recovery Availability, reliability and efficiency improvements Plant upgrade capability Determine the success of your plant with Flex-Power Services™. Contact us to start the Technical Plant Assessment. For more information on the details of the technical evaluation of the plant, please click here. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to an installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Power-to-X and e-fuels Power distribution Power transmission Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Other Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Read more February 21, 2022 7 min read In a swell of renewables, power plants upgrade for flexibility September 30, 2023 5 min read High Desert Power Plant: Empowering California See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025