Cyber Emergency Response Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Cyber Emergency Response at Siemens Energy Our experts in the Siemens Energy Cyber Emergency Response teams (CERT) immediately respond to security threats and incidents affecting Siemens Energy corporate infrastructure as well as Siemens Energy products, solutions, and services. On this page you will find information about their services, relevant advisories for product vulnerabilities. Jump to security advisories Siemens Energy CERT: Safeguarding our corporate infrastructure Our Siemens Energy CERT ensures identification and swift handling of potential cybersecurity incidents, threats and vulnerabilities to our corporate infrastructure. The team detects and contains security incidents, carries out continuous monitoring and reporting to mitigate potential threats to the company at an early stage, and actively advises and supports affected partners in actual crisis situations. Based on this know-how and the latest technological trends, it consults with the Information Technology department at Siemens Energy to improve the enterprise IT security. To optimize our cyber resilience, the Siemens Energy CERT leverages its relationships with various internal and external stakeholders worldwide, such as CSIRT networks, technical communities, and security researcher communities. ProductCERT: Addressing security in our portfolio Siemens Energy's ProductCERT team manages security for products, solutions, and services, collaborating with external partners and researchers to enhance portfolio security. As a Siemens Energy service provider, ProductCERT serves as the central contact for security researchers, vendors, and customers reporting potential Siemens Energy product security vulnerabilities. ProductCERT coordinates and maintains communication with all involved internal and external parties in order to quickly and effectively respond to security issues. Security Advisories are issued to inform customers about measures that must be taken to securely operate Siemens Energy products and solutions. Siemens Energy security advisories The Siemens Energy ProductCERT team investigates reports of security issues and publishes Security Advisories for validated security vulnerabilities that directly affect Siemens Energy products and require customer action. As part of its ongoing effort to help operators manage security risks and help keep their systems protected, Siemens Energy ProductCERT provides the information needed by operators to assess the impact of a security issue. Please note that we are experiencing technical issues on the page. We are sorry for any inconvenience. We would be happy to provide you with any information should you reach out to our contact team. Thank you. ﻿ ID CVSS Score Document Title Info Document Version Last Update Download CVE Ids Tags Products Sector Results Please note that we are experiencing technical issues on the page. We are sorry for any inconvenience. We would be happy to provide you with any information should you reach out to our contact team. Thank you. Contact and reporting Reach out in case of questions or incidents! We ask that you contact our CERT teams regarding any security-related question involving the Siemens Energy portfolio or infrastructure, particularly if you want to report a potential security issue. Please bear in mind that only emails in English or German can be processed, and encrypted communication is preferred. You can expect us to respond by the next business day Central European Time. Siemens Energy ProductCERT – Contact for products, solutions, and services PGP Public Key and Fingerprint: 721F A0FA F09F A34B 24BF B97A C796 861C 75A7 83FA Email productcert@siemens.com Siemens Energy CERT – Contact for Siemens Energy corporate infrastructure Email cert@siemens-energy.com Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025