No power nap for Denmark: Siemens Energy wins major expansion agreement to future-proof Denmark’s electricity grid Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications No power nap for Denmark: Siemens Energy wins major expansion agreement to future-proof Denmark’s electricity grid Press release May 16, 2024 Berlin Today, Siemens Energy and Danish state-owned Energinet announce a EUR 1.4 billion (DKK 10.5 billion) framework agreement to renew Denmark’s energy infrastructure. To accelerate the green energy transition, Siemens Energy has been chosen by Energinet to deliver transformers and switchgears for high-voltage substations to expand the electricity grid in the country. The agreement focuses on the Western part of Denmark, where approximately 50 new or reinforced 150 kV high-voltage substations are planned to be built or expanded over the next 8 years. The first four years of the agreement is estimated to be worth up to EUR 800 million (DKK 6 billion) to accelerate the energy transition. The new substations will be automated and include state-of-the-art grid technologies from Siemens Energy. With Denmark aiming to reach a target of net zero emissions by 2045 through renewable energy, the race is on to decarbonize the Danish grid. By 2030, the country must quadruple its electricity generation from wind and solar power as electricity consumption is multiplied by the switch to electrical vehicles, heat pumps, and converting solar and wind power to hydrogen and green fuels for industries. These shifts require massive investment and expanding electricity grids to ensure the future electrification of Danish society. Tim Holt, Member of the Executive Board for Siemens Energy, says, “There is no energy transition without transmission, and that can only happen with the availability of switchgears and transformers. Grid investments are accelerating dramatically in Europe and worldwide, and customers are competing for manufacturing slots. This agreement enables Siemens Energy to plan its capacities, which will benefit both Danish and European energy infrastructure. We are excited to be trusted to deliver on the grid acceleration in Denmark.” Henrik Riis, CEO of Energinet Electricity Transmission, says, “We need external suppliers to ensure rapid and significant expansion of the electricity transmission grid. The task is enormous. In the coming years, several high-voltage substations on the ‘high-ways’ of the Danish electricity grid are needed to secure that renewable electricity can be connected to the grid and transported around the country. We are incredibly pleased that with Siemens Energy we get a long-term, strategic partnership, thus ensuring that we can keep up with the dramatic development in Denmark.” As renewable energy becomes a bigger part of the electricity mix, grids need to adjust how to transport that electricity. Unlike with conventional generation, wind and solar are often not available where they are consumed, which means the electricity needs to be transported over longer distances, usually at high voltages to minimize loss. Power transformers are a crucial link in this chain, as they enable both that long-distance transport, as well as the conversion between high-voltage for transporting and lower-voltage for consumers. Siemens Energy has been manufacturing power transformers for more than a century and this new agreement is the continuation of a long-standing partnership with Danish Energinet, the independent public enterprise owned by the Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities which owns, operates, and develops the transmission systems for electricity and gas in Denmark which also includes the recently inaugurated Viking Link, the world’s longest interconnector between Denmark and the UK. Contact for journalists Oliver Sachgau Spokesperson Grid Technologies oliver.sachgau@siemens-energy.com +49 1732729231 Contact for journalists Mette Blach Strøyer Media contact Denmark mette.stroeyer@siemens-energy.com +45 2139 1344 Download press release No power nap for Denmark:  Siemens Energy wins major expansion  agreement to future-proof Denmark’s  electricity grid May 17, 2024 PDF (103 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 99,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023. www.siemens-energy.com Read more Read less Read more July 25, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy wins contract for large-scale hydrogen project from German utility EWE May 7, 2024 Berlin German businesses are taking a clear stand for diversity, openness and tolerance February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory October 17, 2023 Berlin Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025