LNG Solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Integrated solutions for the LNG industry Supporting the journey to decarbonization Bridging the gap The share of renewable energy continues to increase worldwide and now accounts for almost one-third of annual global electricity consumption. However, wind and solar energy are intermittent, and we don’t currently have the means to effectively store surplus electricity from these sources for distribution on overcast and windless days. Additionally, power grids were designed for a steady supply of electricity to avoid power blackouts. This is why natural gas, which burns cleaner than other fossil fuels, is an important part of the solution as a reliable complement to renewable energy. Nico Jansen van Rensburg and George Bitar, Siemens Energy, provide an overview of the unique challenges of designing electrical supply systems for e-LNG plants and outline specific measures for addressing harmonic disturbances and ensuring stable power.. Read the full artcile from LNG Industry Electric motor-driven main refrigeration trains continue to emerge as a powerful decarbonization pathway for LNG project stakeholders. However, the development of eLNG facilities often presents unique technical challenges not encountered with traditional gas turbine-driven designs. Ensuring efficiency and reliability of grid-connected eLNG plants is key. Read the full article from Gas Processing & LNG LNG production plant features a first-of-its-kind hybrid drive refrigeration unit for optimized performance, flexibility, and economics – while minimizing environmental impact. Read the full article from Gas Turbine World Your partner throughout the LNG value chain Siemens Energy provides integrated Gas to Power solutions throughout the LNG value chain, offering pre-FEED services, traditional equipment supply, and trusted partnerships. We collaborate with owners, developers, liquefaction licensors, and EPCs, leveraging extensive capabilities in engineering, module fabrication, digital solutions, and financing. Siemens Energy is your sustainable partner from ideation through the lifecycle of your facility. Ocean Green: Powerful partnership at work Download the Ocean Green brochure here. The path toward carbon-free ocean crossing Siemens Energy, in partnership with Moss Maritime, DNV, and Fearnley LNG, has developed the next generation of LNG & Hydrogen Carriers. Ocean Green provides an advanced low-emission power and propulsion system. This hybrid combined-cycle solution utilizes a gas turbine as the main engine in combination with steam turbine and energy storage for the electrical propulsion and distribution system. Project lifecycle support We can help you through all the phases of your LNG project Concept development (including pre-FEED) Partner early in process to deliver concept studies encompassing liquefaction technology selection, layout, modularization, process design, pre-treatment design, and constructability. Extensive experience in concept development studies for de-bottlenecking, revamps and grassroots LNG export facilities. Unbiased approach to LNG liquefaction processing technology. FEED Focus on client specific requirements (no “one-size-fits-all” approach regarding scale, train size, etc.). Understand economic objectives to reduce cost and risk. Maximize return on project investments. Robust portfolio of FEED support, including completing FEED for largest LNG exporter in the U.S. Operation Provide long-term services for equipment with broad operational expertise. LNG solutions With the industry’s broadest range of solutions for power generation, electrification, compression, and process automation, Siemens Energy is uniquely capable of delivering fit-for-purpose equipment that matches the precise requirements of your LNG facility. Our approach focuses on helping operators reduce lifecycle costs and maximize the efficiency of their facilities by supplying optimized equipment and service packages that take into account critical project factors, such as train size, liquefaction licensor and operating environment. Power generation for LNG BOG and auxiliary compressors Modular integrated solutions and E-houses Digitalization Gas turbines for LNG Siemens Energy offers a wide range of gas turbines designed to meet the need of your specific power output. With a proven, long-term track record of successful installations around the world, our gas turbines are ideal engines for the LNG industry. These machines meet requirements for efficiency and reliability, while offering low lifecycle costs to maximize your return on investment. More information about SGT-800 industrial gas turbines More information about SGT-400 industrial gas turbines BOG and auxiliary compression trains Siemens Energy offers solutions for all compression tasks at liquefaction and regasification terminals. We are one of very few companies that can provide fully integrated compression solutions with driver and all auxiliary systems on a base frame for ease of handling and reduced site installation time. The equipment we supply includes compressors for main refrigerant cycles, natural-gas booster compressors, and boil-off and end-flash gas compressors. Depending on plant design, compressors can be driven by an electrical or mechanical drive system. With over 90% market share in cryogenic BOG compression, we have the experience to handle your most difficult application challenges. Read more about our compression solutions Modular integrated solutions and E-houses Siemens Energy draws on decades of experience to offer highly reliable plug-and-play modules for power generation (high-, medium-, and low- voltage power distribution) and compression for both offshore and onshore applications. Modular construction of LNG facilities helps mitigate the risk associated with project cost overruns and schedule delays, which often occur as a result of complications during onsite construction. This has particularly been the case for module development across Asia and plants built in harsh and/or remote operating environments. Siemens Energy has extensive experience leveraging modularization to streamline development of LNG facilities and minimize overall risk to project stakeholders. Learn more about our modular integrated solutions Digitalization The application of digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence (AI), digital twins, and predictive analytics represents a tremendous opportunity for LNG developers and operators to improve the economic viability of their facilities. With our extensive portfolio of software and digital solutions, Siemens Energy helps LNG plant operators capitalize on Industry 4.0 by unlocking hidden value in data to generate efficiency gains, emissions reductions, and operational cost savings. More about digitalization LNG projects Siemens Energy to power the world’s lowest-emission LNG facility Siemens Energy was selected as the single solution supplier for the all-electric Woodfibre LNG project near Squamish, in British Columbia, Canada. The environmentally friendly LNG facility will be located at the site of a former pulp and paper operation. It will be sized for 2.1 million tonnes per annum and utilize clean, renewable hydroelectricity, reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80%. Integrated LNG-to-Power project Siemens Energy has secured an order for the turnkey construction of a new combined cycle power plant for the integrated LNG-to-Power project GNA 1 of Gás Natural Açu in the Port of Açu in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Siemens Energy is providing an equity investment and owns one-third of the project company Gás Natural Açu (GNA) together with Brazil logistics company Prumo Logística S.A. and BP. Delimara LNG-to-Power Siemens Energy supplied a customized equipment solution for the combined-cycle power plant, including three SGT-800 gas turbines, three boilers, and one SST-900 steam turbine. Attracting sufficient capital to support the project’s development was a significant challenge. The capital support from Siemens underscores its confidence in the project’s long-term success and positions the company as a key partner. The project is the first integrated LNG-to-Power project in the world where investors and financiers have taken the risk of sourcing LNG on a non-recourse basis. Innovative LNG finance solutions Siemens Energy offers investment and financing solutions ranging from advisory services covering the spectrum of debt offerings, to both debt and equity options to help our LNG clients address their project needs. Debt financing - We source commercial debt and structure Export Credit Agency covered financings to a range of project participants in corporate, structured and project finance credit structures, including Sales Related Financing. Equity investments - As project developer and committed equity investor, we provide the structure your project needs to excel in every phase, ensuring that you can meet your short- and long-term financial goals. Early-stage development - Securing adequate funding for early-stage project items is critical for Gas to Power projects.  Siemens Energy selectively supports captive finance opportunities for early stage development. Articles and interviews “ The global transition toward a lower-carbon energy system is accelerating. LNG will play a key role in driving toward a more sustainable future; however, the industry must begin to look introspectively at how it can decarbonize the natural gas value chain. Gas Processing & LNG Read the full article Making low-emissions LNG a reality Ensuring stable power Nico Jansen van Rensburg and George Bitar, Siemens Energy, provide an overview of the unique challenges of designing electrical supply systems for e-LNG plants and outline specific measures for addressing harmonic disturbances and ensuring stable power. Read more Transforming the terminal Davor Rubinic, Siemens Energy, Germany, outlines how as the speed and complexity of transf... Read more Into the wild A LNG facility in remote Siberia is overcoming harsh conditions with cost-effective design... Read more Read more October 14, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy to help Total achieve low-emission goals for largest LNG project in Africa September 23, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy to help reduce emissions at NLNG plant July 12, 2022 Ontario, Canada Siemens Energy to power the world’s lowest-emission LNG facility June 22, 2021 Berlin Symbio Infrastructure taps Siemens Energy as technology provider for world’s first carbon neutral LNG liquefaction facility and natural gas transmission line project December 10, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy and Novatek to collaborate on more sustainable LNG production Read all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025