Green Marine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications October 27, 2022 6 min read If the sea could talk to us, what would it say? Story Drive industry decarbonization It would tell us it’s under threat from climate change – and ask us all to work together to preserve it by reducing greenhouse gases. Watch Video The sea does so much for us The sea feeds us. It transports 90% of all globally-traded goods. It absorbs huge quantities of CO₂. Without it, the planet would be six to eleven degrees warmer. And every second breath we take comes from the oceans. Decarbonizing the sea: it’s time to turn the tide But the sea is being harmed by those who use it Shipping is one of the least emission-intense forms of transport. But the sheer size of the maritime sector means that it produces more emissions than the aviation industry. It produced over one billion tons of CO₂ in 2018. And it’s predicted that shipping will account for 17% of global carbon emissions by 2050 if nothing changes. These greenhouse gases obviously contribute to climate change – and this has a direct effect on the sea: Rising Sea Levels Sea levels rise, and the increase in extreme weather impacts on shipping Elevating Water Temperature The temperature of the water increases, threatening the ecosystem of the sea Absorbing CO₂ The sea’s ability to absorb CO₂ is reduced The need to reduce emissions is therefore urgent. Slower sailing speeds are one way to help, but this is hard to implement in today’s fast-moving, want-it-yesterday world. More effective solutions include new fuels, new technologies and new ship designs. These solutions require close collaboration between governments, companies and even competitors. We have developed and fostered many such partnerships, with e-fuel producers, shipping companies, boat builders, port authorities and more. After all, we’re all in the same boat when it comes to climate change. A study on the electrification of the European Ferry Fleet A study conducted by Siemens Energy and the non-profit environmental organization Bellona shows that Europe can reduce CO₂ emissions in key countries by nearly 50 percent. This would save 800.000 tons of CO₂ each year, thanks to already available technologies. Read the study “ Electrofuel – carbon neutral liquid fuel made from renewable electricity – that is the big transition in energy supply for shipping companies and other hard-to-abate sectors. Claes Fredriksson CEO Liquid Wind “ The target we have set for reducing CO₂ emissions by 70% by 2030 is one of the most ambitious goals in the industry. To achieve that, we need collaboration. Christoffer Lillhage Senior Business Development Manager – Energy, The Port of Gothenburg “ The customer base will demand better environmental performance. It is just the reality of doing business now. David Gordon COO KiwiRail “ We need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in advance of any regulations that may be around the corner. Matt von Ruden System Electrification Program Administrator, Washington State Ferry “ With this e-methanol technology, the maritime sector can be decarbonized. It’s possible and viable, technically and also economically. Knud Erik Andersen CEO European Energy “ It is important that we decarbonize as fast as possible and really push the green transition. These are new developments – but the technology is there. Berit Hinnemann Head of Green Fuels Sourcing, A.P. Moller - Maersk “ If you want to achieve decarbonization, it is necessary to establish partnerships with other industries. Francesca Pellegrini Sales Manager for Marine Market, Siemens Energy “ For all power-to-fuel development projects which are coming, you need to be partnering up. Engelbert Schrapp Principal Corporate Account Manager, Siemens Energy “ We all know that we need to do something different. We need to change our mindset. And that is across all industries, not just the maritime industry. Luke Briant Director of Marine Solutions Americas, Siemens Energy “ This vessel is really eco-friendly and I think more and more countries around the world will start to be curious about this. Svein Erik Waskaas Captain, Bastø Fosen Ferries Views of the sea With so many businesses depending on the sea, it’s everyone’s business to preserve it. Collaboration across all marine sectors enables projects that would otherwise not exist. And it accelerates decarbonization, for the ocean and for the whole planet. E-fuel partnership sails into port The port of Gothenburg has a proud 400-year trading history.  To ensure this continues, it aims to achieve a 70% reduction in CO₂ emissions by 2030 – largely through close collaboration with e-fuel developer Liquid Wind and Siemens Energy. Explore more Major shipping line driven by e-methanol Maersk has a decarbonization target of reaching net zero in 2040 – but as a shipping company, its large vessels cannot be driven directly by electricity. The solution lies in partnerships with companies such as European Energy creating CO₂-neutral e-fuels from renewable sources including green hydrogen. Explore more Cutting costs as well as emissions Through the electrification of its vessels, Washington State Ferries in the US is set to save over $60 in operating costs, as well as surpassing the statutory 70% emissions reduction goal set by state legislation.  Collaboration with a number of partners including Siemens Energy is making this possible. Explore more Staying ahead of the wave in New Zealand For KiwiRail, operator of the ferry between the North and South Islands of New Zealand, cutting carbon emissions is a smart business decision as well as being the right thing to do. Their partnership with Siemens Energy is making that happen. Explore more The quiet revolution in Norway The passengers on the newly-electrified Bastø Fosen ferries in Norway have noticed the significant reduction in noise and vibration. What they may not realize is that they are experiencing a historic development in this mode of transport. Explore more Sustainability: more than a luxury Benetti, the world’s leading builder of megayachts, employs technology that strives for eco-friendliness as well as quietness and a lack of vibration. The hybrid propulsion system developed together with Siemens Energy has made the new B.YOND 37M the greenest yacht in her segment. Explore more A decarbonized energy system is possible if we all embrace this vision. We aspire a net zero value chain and have committed to reduce greenhouse gas emission from the use of products sold by 28 percent until 2030. Read more Read more August 4, 2022 4 min read One giant leap for e-Methanol August 28, 2022 4 min read Electric propulsion lets Norway ferry passengers hear the sounds of the fjords See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025