CO₂ Compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Safe and efficient CO₂ compressors Our wide CO₂ compressor portfolio provides you with the most cost effective compression solution for your process. Whether your application is for CO₂ injection, Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) or urea plants, we will work with you to achieve your economic and sustainability goals. There is growing demand and new business opportunities for reservoir owners to take off, inject and store CO₂ and with our proven, best in class compressor technologies we can work towards decarbonizing your process. Watch our webinar series Geared for success: Exploring integrally geared compressors In this webinar series our experts discuss integrally geared compressors and their applications, providing you with a deeper understanding of this compression technology and the advancements shaping the industry. CO2 applications Integrally geared compressor overview Integrally geared compressors for CO2 compression in CCUS applications - a whitepaper In this paper, we compare various CO2 compression technologies and highlight the advantages integrally geared compressors (IGCs) provide in terms of efficiency, costs, flexibility, reliability, and footprint. Download our white paper Power of choice We recognize that our customers are under regulatory and reputational pressure to reduce emissions whilst continuing to optimize production. Working with you towards the energy transition, we are exploring efficient ways to handle problem gas while increasing your energy efficiency through operational changes. Giving you the power of choice with solutions from our reciprocating, single-shaft and integrally geared compressor portfolios, we have the broadest application range. Integrally geared compressors Reciprocating compressors Single-shaft centrifugal compressors References World’s first large-scale direct air capture plant to use Siemens Energy equipment Our compressors will be used at Occidental's first large-scale Direct Air Capture (DAC) plant in Texas' Permian Basin developed by 1PointFive, a subsidiary of Occidental. Snohvit / Hammerfest LNG Scope: 2x integrally geared compressors with dry gas seals The only existing subsea pipeline injection currently operating in the world. Natural Gas in the Snohvit field contains 5-8% CO₂ which is separated, compressed, liquefied and pumped back via subsea pipeline into reservoir ION Clean Energy Scope: Front End Engineering Design (FEED) study to support heat integration and optimization, compressor selection DOE-supported design and costing study for retrofitting Nebraska Public Power District Gerald Gentleman Station with a 90% CO₂ capture system FPSOs Pre-Salt Scope: 4x compressor trains – high density centrifugal compressors for CO₂ re-injection service Reduced capital expenditure, footprint, weight, and operating costs, while increasing reliability by eliminating the need to install, operate and maintain high-pressure injection pumping systems downstream of the compression system CO2 Enhanced Oil Recovery Scope: Over 90 High Speed Reciprocating Compressors supplied to develop stranded reserves of oil from depleted reservoirs Increased oil production with CO2 EOR Steam Methane Reforming CO2 compressor for carbon capture project for hydrogen producing steam methane reformers. The compressor supplies a high pressure CO2 pipeline for enhanced oil recovery. 1 million metric tons of CO2 captured and stored per year (&gt;90% capture rate). The captured CO2 is expected to increase oil field output by 60-90 million barrels. Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025