Onsite Repair Service Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Onsite Repair Service Our service promise to you Over the years we've built up an extensive and innovative expertise in technologies such as welding, coating, onsite CNC, robotics and state-of-the-art non-destructive testing. All this has been developed with one aim: to enable our highly skilled and experienced professionals to test, repair and refurbish the widest variety of complex components and materials used in the energy sector - for all customers, wherever they may be. We support all types of businesses worldwide with innovative and premium-quality field service solutions. Our wide range of mobile service solutions includes maintenance, repairs, replacements, refurbishments and upgrades of components, as well as technical education training for every need. Our mobile equipment makes us highly flexible and quickly available anytime and anywhere. Siemens Energy Onsite Repair Service serves all industries with the latest technologies and solutions. Our main services include Innovative welding and coating technologies CNC and robotic onsite machining State-of-the-art non-destructive testing and material analysis Development of advanced testing methods and equipment Global tooling network Engineering and metrology capabilities Technical training and competence development Insight Technologies We offer technologies fitting to your business. Depending on your type of business we can provide you with the right technology. Siemens Energy Onsite Repair Service offers a wide and comprehensive set of technologies and onsite solutions for your industry. Non-Destructive visual testing with robots The visual inspection robot (VIR) allows non-destructive, visual testing of components and equipment without the need to disassemble them. Toolcenter Services The right tools at the right time Wherever and whenever you need professional sets of tools Siemens Energy Onsite Repair Service provide you with the desired equipment. News Extending turbine life through innovative small punch technique According to European Union figures, the energy sector is responsible for more than 75 per cent of the EU’s greenhouse gas emissions. Increasing the share of renewable energy across the different sectors of the economy is therefore an essential building block to achieving an integrated energy system that delivers on Europe’s ambition of climate neutrality. Read more Improving the operational performance of turbines with phased array ultrasonic testing of blade roots With the latest report from The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimating that CO2 emissions will increase by almost five per cent this year to 33 billion tonnes, predominantly on the increase in coal for power generation, the pressure is rising to increase the use of renewable sources. Read more Printing out of the box Refurbishing gas turbine components by using additive manufacturing and robot technology onSite!Read the latest article from Mirko Düsel, Head of Service Generation at Siemens Energy on TurboMachinery International. Read more Combining knowledge, passion and state-of-the-art technology The TECC’s mission is to be the best place for customers to learn Read the article from Mario Baetzl,Sales and Marketing Manager Siemens Energy on Linkedin. Read more List of accredited NDE test procedures 2023-06-01 (DE) PDF (272 KB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025