Encrypted communication Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Encrypted communication Against the background of constantly growing cyber threats and industrial espionage, we’d like to offer you a simple and straightforward solution for communicating with us in an encrypted and secure manner via e-mail, the most important communication channel for our partners and us. In the public Certificate Portal of TeleTrust EBCA , you’ll find the current encryption certificates of your Siemens Energy contacts. Just enter the e-mail address there to find and download the certificate you need for encryption. In most e-mail programs, you can include the certificate simply by double-clicking it. To send encrypted e-mails to your Siemens Energy contact, you need an S/MIME certificate yourself. Please clarify technical questions regarding the use or implementation of PKI technology with the technical contacts in your organization. You can also find more details on the FAQ page of the EBCA . We currently use the Trust Center of Siemens AG. All verification can be found here . Questions regarding the validity of specific Siemens Energy signature certificates as well as any questions regarding the policy should be e-mailed to this address . Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025