SGT-9000HL facts and insights Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications HL-class gas turbine Flexible, reliable, and future proof technology Our goal is to build a decarbonized and sustainable future together with our customers The SGT-9000HL turbine can help you reduce your carbon footprint now while looking to the future, all while providing fast, reliable energy production. Let's energize society. People behind the SGT-9000HL gas turbine We foster a mindset that explores new technologies to improve high efficiency, low emissions, reliability and flexible operations. Check out the HL turbine’s vital numbers Contact your HL-class team World record holder  for the SGT5-9000HL Gas Turbine at SSE Thermal’s Keadby2 Power Station in North Lincolnshire, UK Keadby2 Power Station: the future of power generation in the UK Read the story How the fast-ramping 9000HL gas turbine supports your path to net-zero There is not just one solution which will produce enough power and meet net zero emissions targets. A mix of new technologies, including high output and fuel-flexible options like the SGT-9000HL, are paving the way to sustainable energy. Whether you’re switching from coal to gas, to higher efficiency solutions, or to low- and no-carbon fuels, we’re with you on this journey. Integrating with renewables and carbon capture storage technologies are also ways the SGT-9000HL can help you drive the energy transition. Watch webinar The SGT6-9000HL at Duke Energy’s Lincoln station supports solar and the path to net-zero. Watch the webinar video to learn more. Read more Read POWER Magazine article How gas turbine technology is leading the way to net zero - Article in POWER Magazine Read more Read Gas Turbine World article New 9000HL-class gas turbine breaking performance records - Article in Gas Turbine World Read more Supporting energy around the world with HL-class gas turbines TÜV SÜD Certification for power plants with SGT-9000HL gas turbines In October 2023, we have received the TÜV SÜD certificate for the hydrogen readiness concept covering combined cycle plants, simple cycle plants and combined heat and power plants equipped with the SGT-9000HL. With this certificate, TÜV SÜD validates the readiness concept for main systems and components with exception of the gas turbine package for hydrogen readiness up to 100% hydrogen. The gas turbine package itself is rated as H 2 ready for up to 50%Vol, based on current rig test results. This is an important milestone in the 9000HL’s hydrogen journey as TÜV SÜD is an internationally recognized certifier, and this certificate is evidence that we meet the requirements to offer hydrogen-ready power plants in line with regulatory requirements, customer expectations and transformation roadmaps. We are aiming to have all gas turbines capable of burning 100% hydrogen by 2030, to help our customers meet their demands of the energy transition. Visit our HL-class gas turbine product pages SGT5-9000HL – 50 Hz SGT6-9000HL – 60 Hz Ease that you deserve Complementing the HL gas turbine, our innovative GT Auxiliary Integrated Package (AIP) provides you with smart, streamlined construction and servicing. 20K hours saved in construction Fully electrically integrated 95% of all inline components integrated Fast Stack modules give assurance of fit-up in the field Modules are truck shippable Design fully developed in-house, built to print Allows for maintenance during operation Lighting system integrated Service for your solution Industry leading service intervals for advanced gas turbines with the first outage at 33,000 EBH / 1,250 ES Ability to rotor de-stack on site and no rotor inspection recommended until 200,000 EBH/ 5,000 RES for hours based units Minimized outage durations through pre-designed serviceability features of the package and engine, for example, the capability to perform a Combustion Inspection + Row 1 Outage requiring no turbine cover lift instead of a traditional Hot Gas Path Inspection The frame is fully integrated into Siemens Energy service concept offerings Contact your HL-class team Downloads and Links Learn more Helpful Links LinkedIn Factsheet and video Technical papers HL-class fact sheet PDF (443 KB) Download Posters SGT-9000HL PDF (130 KB) Download Portfolio Brochure Gas turbine portfolio brochure (interactive) PDF (19 MB) Download 3D Experience HL-Powerplant Webinars Testing the big one - Insights into test sites of HL-class gas turbines Webinar – How the Fast-ramping SGT6-9000HL at Duke Energy’s Lincoln Station Supports Solar and the Path to Net-zero Whitepapers Hydrogen power and heat with Siemens Energy gas turbines Hydrogen Solutions https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/offerings/renewable-energy/hydrogen-solutions.html Decarbonization https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/priorities/decarbonization.html https://www.powerengineeringint.com/feature-articles/fast-ramping-peakers-support-solar-and-bridge-the-way-to-net-zero Hydrogen Decarbonization Calculator https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/priorities/future-technologies/hydrogen/hydrogen-decarb-calculator.html Fairs, Events and Webinars https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/news/fairs-events.html Articles on LinkedIn Validation with our SGT6-9000HL - More than just a world record The SGT-9000HL – our decarbonization hero 9000HL: A dream comes true… The Power of Clouds & SGT-9000HL It has never been easier than this: The AIP Easy to handle – A look at servicing the HL turbine A Strong Showing in South Korea with the SGT6-9000HL Turbine Contact your HL-class team Making an impact with HL gas turbines “ SSE is very pleased to have this unique opportunity now to partner with Siemens Energy. The highlight efficient technology, not previously seen in the UK, will provide firm, reliable power at half the carbon emissions of the coal generation it is replacing. Martin Pibworth, SSE Wholesale Director “ This unique arrangement with Siemens Energy offers a significant cost saving to our customers while providing one of the most advanced, efficient gas turbine units in the U.S. This new technology will provide us with flexible peaking power needed to complement intermittent solar energy resources for our customers and lower emissions across our fleet. David Fountain, Duke Energy's North Carolina President Project examples PGE has signed a contract for the construction of a CCGT unit in Rybnik PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna has signed an agreement with Polimex Mostostal and Siemens E... Read more Power Plants of the World: Sun Ba II Sun Ba II was designed as a multi-shaft combined cycle power plant in which two gas turbin... Read more How gas turbine technology is leading the way to net zero Gas turbines have come a long way since the first design and there are good reasons be opt... Read more Keadby 2 Power Station to contribute over £1bn to UK economy ‘Powering Progress’ report from SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy highlights the socio-econom... Read more Fast-ramping peakers support solar… How Siemens Energy is marking a successful first year in grid-testing a 402MW next-generat... Read more More about the the inaugural HL project February 13, 2023 6 min read Ramping up in record time when sun and wind take a break July 24, 2023 6 min read Is your region ready for the energy transition? Here’s the answer. See all stories More insights August 23, 2022 Berlin Siemens Energy and Duke Energy’s gas power plant achieves GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS™ title September 30, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy’s HL-class technology enables Greece to reduce CO2 emissions and protect the environment Read all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025