Working at Siemens Energy: Careers & Job Opportunities Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Working at Siemens Energy Learn more about a career at Siemens Energy - our culture, people and work environment At Siemens Energy, we aim to energize society and shape the future of the energy sector. We believe in driving energy efficiency, harnessing renewable energy and advocating for green energy solutions. If you're eager to make a meaningful impact through a fulfilling career, you've arrived at the right destination. Become part of our diverse global team, where your uniqueness is celebrated, and our supportive work environment allows you to flourish. Embark on a journey with us to discover the wide array of career paths we provide. Ready to make a difference with Siemens Energy? Explore jobs Peek into your future as an employee at Siemens Energy Step into the world of Siemens Energy with unfiltered perspectives from team members who share the real scoop on our culture and our people. Their candid stories may spark your imagination and offer a view into the exciting opportunities that could unfold for you when you start your journey with us. Discover the stories behind our team January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” This is the description by
							Kerstin Schirmer January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career This is the description by
							Susanne Weissmann August 9, 2024 4 min read A young professional’s path to leadership Meet Stefanie Dirrigl, Head of Pricing at our Grid Technologies Sales department, who will give us insight into her day-to-day as a young professional and tell us about the important nexus of energy transition that she works with us on. by
							Anke Streithof At Siemens Energy, we believe that every career is as unique as the individual behind it. From the precision of manufacturing to the innovation of engineering, the dedication of field service, the breakthroughs in IT, and the strategic vision of corporate roles - every path is integral to our collective success. As you explore the featured stories, you'll discover the voices of our team members from various departments and backgrounds. They are the heartbeat of Siemens Energy, and their journeys show the personal and professional growth available within our company. Explore the benefits we offer you Career growth and development Flexible work culture & well-being Supportive work environment Thrive in an environment that values your advancement. Expand your horizons by working with a global team, leading innovative projects, and continuously improving your skills. Through our various learning programs and a learning platform, you have access to a wealth of knowledge to keep you ahead in a rapidly evolving marketplace. Embedded in our culture is a tailored approach designed to foster your individual growth and performance, providing dynamic tools and resources for your professional journey. We understand that your personal life is just as important as your career. That's why we offer options to help you manage your work and personal commitments effectively such as time-off, paid holidays and parental leave. We believe that a balanced life leads to a fulfilled, productive workforce. Our commitment to your well-being is also reflected in our comprehensive benefits, ensuring you have the support you need. Engage with a variety of communities and support within the workplace to help you thrive in every aspect of your life. Our inclusive culture encourages collaboration, diversity, and the free exchange of ideas. We recognize that a supportive work environment is the cornerstone of our collective success. Step into our culture, our values, our work environment We believe in diversity and inclusion Siemens Energy champions diversity, uniting almost 100,000 employees of all genders, ages, ethnicities, sexual orientations, and abilities. In an atmosphere of equality and belonging, our team's shared passion and energy are dedicated to shaping the energy systems of the future. Learn more about how we live equality We are committed to sustainability Sustainability is at the heart of our strategy, guiding our contributions toward a successful energy transition. We take pride in the strides we've made in all sustainability facets at Siemens Energy, reflecting our commitment to a greener and more responsible future Explore our sustainability program Be part of an award-winning team We are thrilled to announce that we have been nominated as a Best Place to Work by Glassdoor, one of the world’s leading platforms for company insights. This prestigious nomination is not just a testament to our exceptional workplace culture, but also to the incredible team that makes our success possible every day. Glassdoor: Check Siemens Energy Reviews Passionate about renewables? We are dedicated to turning sustainable, reliable, and affordable energy into a tangible reality. Siemens Gamesa is part of Siemens Energy. Are you interested in discovering more about career opportunities at Siemens Gamesa? Learn more Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Get to know some of our colleagues March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025