Exchange engine for industrial gas turbine applications Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Exchange engine for industrial gas turbine applications Siemens can offer either a service exchange or lease of major assemblies and full core engine units, dependent upon suitability and availability. Contact us Service Exchange While your gas turbine is undergoing maintenance, Siemens can relieve the pressure of production schedules and minimize on-site disruption by providing you with a factory built service exchange core or major sub-assembly. Siemens service exchange units are built to current design standards, incorporating latest technical developments and fully tested to produce power within the original installed output. Each exchange unit is configured to match your installation before being tested and dispatched. We hold a large multi-engine exchange fleet which, with sufficient advance notice, can be made ready for rapid dispatch following site configuration and testing. Service Exchange for SGT-750 Gas Turbine Service Exchange for TB, SGT-100, SGT-200, SGT-300 and SGT-400 Industrial Gas Turbines The benefits of Service Exchange Guaranteed genuine Siemens parts used for turbine build. Minimum disruption to your business. Option of new, repaired or refurbished components available for turbine build. Reduced risk of obsolescence of spare parts. All parts and services backed by Siemens warranties. Access to and application of the latest technologies and product developments. Global network of Siemens approved support centers. Lease Engines If your preference is to have your engine overhauled, rather than Service Exchanged, Siemens can supply a lease unit engine to reduce disruption and maintain continuity of operation. Siemens offers cost efficient emergency back up in the form of lease engines for hire for emergency purposes. Our lease pool of engines ensures that emergency back up is available on the shortest possible lead times. An adaptor kit will ensure the lease engine suits the installation and can be installed in place of any gas turbine of its kind originally delivered by Siemens. Whether you have one, or multiple engines being overhauled consecutively, we can provide a short or long term lease of gas generators, power turbines, major assemblies or complete engine cores to suit your needs. Lease Engines for Industrial Gas Turbines up to 15 MW Short Term Availability of major assemblies during scheduled overhauls which allow customers to utilize the full potential of their facility whilst their own turbine or assembly is away being overhauled. Lease Equipment for Unscheduled Overhauls by offering major engine assemblies, gas generators and power turbines during unscheduled outage. Maintenance Programs with access to lease equipment, as standard, for preventative and corrective maintenance programs to reduce any unscheduled downtime. Those customers accessing the lease engine pool through a maintenance program also benefit from reduced lease fees. The benefits of Lease Engines Increased uptime during overhaul periods by scheduling a lease turbine or assembly. Reduced impact of unscheduled maintenance. Flexible response to short term increased power demands. Availability of complete packages for short/ long term leasing where extra capacity is required. Access to lease equipment through maintenance contracts. Lease equipment for unscheduled overhauls. No major capital outlay. Do you need more information? If you have any questions or would like to find out how we can help you, please let us know. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025