Transformers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Transformers Driving sustainable progress with advanced transformer solutions We envisage an energy future that is green, clean, reliable, and cyber-secure. In the face of a rapidly evolving energy landscape, the role of transformers in enabling a successful energy transition has never been more critical. The rise of renewable energy generation introduces increasing power fluctuations, requiring grid operators to be agile and adaptive. We stand at the forefront of this change, developing innovative technologies that are not only responding to these challenges but actively guiding us towards a more sustainable future. Our mission is to empower utilities, industries, and infrastructure sectors to optimize their transformer assets. We do this by ensuring high reliability and performance, reducing life-cycle costs, and minimizing environmental impact. Our solutions are designed to provide a robust response to the demands of the current energy climate, balancing operational efficiency with a commitment to environmental sustainability. Why Siemens Energy? Serving in 100+ countries, we're a global energy solution. Backed by a century's experience, our skill in creating reliable transformers is unparalleled. Exceptional reliability sets our products apart. We prioritize innovation, spearheading advanced research. We're not just a provider; we're a partner.  With a global network, we're always close to our customers. Our contribution We invite you to explore our comprehensive portfolio, showcasing our innovative and sustainable solutions in the energy sector. Power transformers are crucial catalysts in adjusting voltage levels, paving the way for a sustainable and energy-efficient tomorrow. Learn more: LPT & MPT transformers HVDC Shunt- & Series Reactors Mobile Resilience transformer Phase-shifting transformers Distribution transformers are essential instruments in modulating voltage levels and driving the world towards a more sustainable and efficient energy future. Learn more: Carepole Geafol LIDT Voltage-Regulator Traction transformers Renewable transformers Innovation hub where pioneering solutions meet transformative technology for next-generation transformer applications. Learn more: Pretact® Pretact Ecosafety Bullet resistant transformers Sustainabile transformer Alternative insulation liquids Direct Current (DC) Compensation Grid digitalization Transformer Insights The Rising Appeal of On-Site Service Solution PDF (643 KB) Pushing Sustainability for Transformers PDF (705 KB) Advancing Transformer Performance with DC Compensatin technology PDF (678 KB) Driving Resilience for modern grids PDF (1 MB) Latest industry articles and thought leadership pieces on cutting-edge transformer technologies and innovative solutions in leading trade publications. Always get the most out of your products Transformer Services Transformer Services Siemens Energy Transformer Services helps you to act promptly and responsibly to preserve the value of your product in the most effective and low-cost manner. Test Laboratory for Transformer Materials The Siemens Energy Test Laboratory for Transformer Materials detects ageing processes early, thus preventing costly breakdowns, minimizing idle time and extending the life of your product. Electrical Research and Testing Laboratory The Siemens Energy ERT Lab offers comprehensive testing and analysis facilities for energy-related material testing, research, and development. The laboratory can satisfy your special needs and demands: Every step of the test can be specifically coordinated and individually defined. Get in touch with us for more information about our power transmission and distribution portfolio Contact us Stay up to date with our transformers July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition February 15, 2024 7 min read Power transformers, born in the USA November 12, 2024 4 min read What will it take to decarbonize grid energy’s supply chain? See all stories Transformers press releases February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory October 12, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy sells Trench to sharpen portfolio See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025