GEAFOL Transformers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications GEAFOL cast-resin transformers Our environmentally friendly GEAFOL dry-type transformers are setting new standards Wherever distribution transformers have to assure the utmost safety in areas frequented by people, GEAFOL® cast-resin transformers are the ideal solution. With GEAFOL, the limitations of liquid-filled transformers are avoided, but the proven electrical, mechanical and especially thermal characteristics are retained. Quality standards Technology Sustainability Digitalization Accessories GEAFOL transformers from Siemens Energy exceed highest safety standards and comply to all relevant laws and regulations. Exceeding highest quality standards GEAFOL dry-type transformers conform with the fire behavior, environmental and climate classes defined in standard IEC 60076-11 as follows: E3 Environmental class (higher classes on request) F1 Fire behaviour class (highest defined class) C3 Climate category (higher classes on request) Complying with the laws and regulations affecting distribution transformers Siemens Energy is closely monitoring the development of transformer regulations worldwide e.g. European Eco Design Directive and US DOE rules. Siemens Energy adheres to the rules and regulations communicated e.g. in US and Europe and complies with all relevant requirements for every transformer product delivered. As a trustful and responsible partner Siemens Energy understands the importance of these regulations and will continue to monitor potential future requirements. We will continue to adapt and comply with all relevant regulatory changes. We produce the GEAFOL in accordance with VDE 0532-76-11/IEC 60076-11/ DIN EN 60076-11 and the Ecodesign Directive from the European Commission. Other standards, such as GOST, SABS, or CSA/ANSI/ IEEE, can also be taken into account on request. GEAFOL dry-type transformers also can be designed to meet special national specifications, or customers’ wishes. The high quality standard of the GEAFOL transformers was confirmed from the result of several tests: For example, one and the same GEAFOL transformer has passed all defined routine, type, and special tests, as well as additional tests, with flying colors. The comprehensive safety certification enables the use in almost every environment and under extremely harsh conditions such as: Ambient temperatures of ± 60 °C Aggressive, salt-laden atmospheres Great mechanical stress e.g. on ships, cranes or nacelles of wind power plants EU requirements for transformers The GEAFOL principle has succeeded in producing transformers with excellent electrical, mechanical and thermal characteristics, which have also proved to be particularly compatible with the environment. Maintenance-free & eco-friendly insulation GEAFOL dry-type transformers are insulated with an epoxy resin and quartz powder mixture – an eco-friendly material that makes the winding almost maintenance-free moisture-resistant tropicalized flame-retardant self-extinguishing No toxic gases are produced, not even under the effects of arcing. And the specially developed spacers of the coil support system ensure isolation of vibrations from the iron core, which means very low noise levels. Electrically safe allominium foil winding The coils of the high-voltage windings are made of aluminum foil. Why foil windings? They combine simple winding techniques with high electrical safety. Insulation is subjected to less electrical stress than in other types of windings. The result: high power frequency and impulse voltage withstand capability. Why aluminum? Thermal expansion coefficients of aluminum and cast resin are similar. The result: thermal stresses due to load changes are kept to a minimum. On request, we also offer dry-type transformers with copper windings, namend CARECO . No gas inclusions during casting process The high voltage windings are potted with epoxy resin under vacuum at a high temperature: Undesirable gas inclusions are prevented. Freedom from partial discharges (up to twice the rated voltage) is provided. The low-voltage strip winding is also made of aluminum. The width of the aluminum strip is equal to the length of the coil: Axial short-circuit forces in the transformer are reduced. The conductor strip and insulation material are bonded together by heating: A compact unit with sufficient strength to reliably withstand radial forces is created. GEAFOL transformers are insulated with an epoxy resin/ quartz powder mixture instead of oil - a very environmentally friendly alternative. Besides, GEAFOL dry-type transformer are completely recyclable​. GEAFOL transformers from Siemens Energy are produced as Sensformers per default. This means they are equipped with sonsors, that are transmitting operational status data to a secure storage and analytics tool. Operators can optimze operations based on customized data analytics. Sensproducts website For our GEAFOL dry-type transformers, we offer accessories and tailored solutions that suit your individual needs. Here is a selection of additional equipment available upon request: Temperature monitoring PTC thermistor temperature sensors, PT 100 resistance temperature detectors or a capillary tube thermometer can be employed for temperature supervision of GEAFOL transformers. Radial-flow fans Radial-flow fans with temperature-dependent control can be installed to provide capacity reserves and to cover peak load periods. In this way, the transformer output can be raised by up to 50 percent. Housing To provide protection for the transformers against environmental influences and to prevent people from coming into contact with the transformer, we offer standard housings, and optionally, modified housing designs. Connection To simplify installation and connection, the transformer is optionally available with connection on the HV or LV side, top, or bottom. Plug connections are available as well. Find the right GEAFOL / CARECO dry-type transformer GEAFOL Neo Characteristics Innovative clean design Low weight – small dimensions Use in almost every environment Rated power up to 6.3 MVA Highest voltage for equipment Um up to 40.5 kV Application areas In the direct vicinity of humans: Modern functional buildings Residential and work environments Wind power plants GEAFOL Characteristics Maximum power-to-volume ratio Highly efficient cooling system Handles peak loads up to five times the rating Rated power up to 50 MVA Highest voltage for equipment Um up to 52 kV Application areas In industrial applications close to the load centers: Buildings Offshore platforms and ships Mining conveyors and refineries Rolling mills GEAFOL converter transformers Characteristics High short circuit withstand capability Great heat capacity High overload capability Rated power up to 50 MVA Highest voltage for equipment Um up to 52 kV Application areas Directly at the consumer load center: Off-shore installations Oil rigs Conveyance facilities DC-powered light rail systems Steel mills Making a difference Siemens Energy GEAFOL cast-resin transformers are built for operations and environments all over the world. They not only meet highest customer requirements, but comply with both national and international standards. GEAFOL – resistant to overvoltage by design Safe, reliable, and eco-friendly: GEAFOL cast-resin transformers from Siemens Energy have been providing a wide range of customer benefits since the product launch in 1966. The combi nation of cast-resin transformers and vacuum circuit breakers (VCB) has been used successfully for more than 30 years in industry and utility service. Read more Interview Tilo Else The energy market is rapidly evolving with the energy transition as one of the most fundamental changes: What challenges does this rapidly changing energy landscape pose for customers? Read more World-record transformer for Sydney Significant milestone for the transformer plant in Kirchheim. The 150.000th cast resin transformer (GEAFOL) has seen the light of day at the Siemens transformer plant in Kirchheim. A birth with a symbolic implication: This “giant baby” will be delivered to Sydney, where it will power Australia’s largest public transport project: The first comprehensive metro-system down-under. Read more Make use of our services For your convenience, we have gathered relevant downloads in one spot. If your question is still unanswered, please feel free to contact our Energy Support Team. Downloads Support Services Brochure downloads GEAFOL Neo: Convincing technology creates compact performance PDF (5 MB) Download GEAFOL for wind applications: Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient PDF (387 KB) Download Operational manual: GEAFOL and CARECO dry-type transformers PDF (1 MB) Download Cast-resin transformers / China PDF (4 MB) Download Operational manual / China PDF (4 MB) Download Contact the Customer Support Center +49 911 6505 6505 support@siemens-energy.com Contact form SIEMENS ENERGY Humboldtstr. 64 Nuremberg 90459 Germany For general information, please visit Transformer services Transformer laboratory Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025