Decarbonization Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Decarbonization – a change in the purchasing world How we decarbonize the supply chain together with our suppliers. Now is the time to act The effects of climate change are obvious. The frequency of extreme weather events is increasing and long-lasting climate extremes with devastating consequential damage are a reality. Climate change affects us all and only together can we create a turning point. The legally binding basis is the Paris Agreement – an international treaty signed by 196 parties in 2015. The goal: to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius if possible, and in any case to well below two degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial era. To achieve this, all countries around the world are called upon to curb this climate change and transform the global economy in a climate-friendly way. As an energy company, we also have a huge responsibility – not only in the production of energy products and solutions, but also in the orientation towards a decarbonized supply chain. At Siemens Energy, we take these efforts very seriously and support the goals of the Paris Agreement. The most important internal goal is to make our own operations climate-neutral by 2030 (see Siemens Energy Sustainability Report ). But honestly, we can’t do it alone. We need to collaborate with our suppliers and convince them to also reduce their CO 2 emissions towards Net Zero. This path is characterized by a forced transition to lower-emission energy sources and simultaneous development of more sustainable and ultimately emission-free energy products and technologies. Supply chain decarbonization transformation process The decisive factor in the supply chain is, there are multiple links that all interlock. Decarbonizing the supply chain also means that every single link must be interested in and work to reduce emissions. This applies to our suppliers, to us as an energy company and to our customers. We strive for carbon neutral products from our suppliers to offer our end customers CO 2 reduced or CO 2 neutral components and solutions. The focus is particularly on machined, casted and forged parts, but also on products from the industrial and chemical sectors. These areas still cause a significant portion of CO 2 emissions worldwide. There is also a lot of potential to reduce CO 2 in logistics due to what are often long transport routes. The same applies to suppliers. It is therefore even more important that everyone makes the switch today, step by step. How decarbonization can take place With increasing electrification, the use of hydrogen and the intensified use of renewables, we already have climate-friendly alternatives. The generation of green electricity and its direct use are key. Electrification of manufacturing processes, heating and cooling systems, and mobility can increase direct consumption of green power. In areas that cannot be electrified, green hydrogen contributes to decarbonization as an indirect or direct energy source, through the production of synthetic e-fuels for mobility of all kinds, or to produce CO 2 -free steel. The use of energy management systems and energy-efficient control systems (smart systems) additionally increase energy efficiency and thus also the reduction of CO 2 emission. You can find examples and solutions from Siemens Energy here: The power of Hydrogen | Find a storage solution that fits your needs Decarbonization Due Diligence Assessment (DDA) A deeper knowledge of our suppliers' footprint and greater transparency on all CO 2 emissions in our supply chain are the foundation for the future. The introduction of this DDA, a web-based assessment, is a logical result. DDA helps us to learn about the supplier’s implemented and planned actions for CO 2 reductions. By conducting the DDA annually, we can track progress in decarbonizing our supply chain. And this is where you as a supplier come in. We would like to invite you to complete the DDA annually in order to be as transparent as possible in measuring your carbon footprint and thus our progress in decarbonizing our supply chain. To do this, you should provide us with information about your energy efficiency, use of renewable energy and recycled materials, and carbon management. After the evaluation of the DDA by our external partner, the result will be discussed with you. Based on the result, you can see where you stand and where there is still room for improvement. You should then develop and implement further decarbonization measures on your own responsibility, which will be monitored in our annual DDA process. In addition, you should not only focus on reducing CO 2 emissions from your own production, but also work closely with your suppliers to source CO 2 -neutral products. Why is this so important? Since 75% of the CO 2 emissions in the Siemens Energy supply chain are caused by the subcontractors of our suppliers, it is critical that our suppliers also agree on CO 2 reduction measures with their suppliers. In addition to price, quality, availability and technology, your decarbonization strategy has an influence on our annual supplier evaluation and will be a criterion in our purchasing decisions in the future. Decarbonization use cases Based on the feedback from the suppliers on their CO 2 reduction measures they have already implemented or are planning, we can see that some suppliers are already very successful in reducing CO 2 emission. One of the main measures of our suppliers is the own generation or the purchase of renewable energy as well as the modernization of old inefficient systems with new technologies such as the installation of heat recovery systems or the switch to CO 2 -free heating systems (heat pumps/biomass heating) and the use of LED lamps. In the area of steel, aluminum and copper production, suppliers are pushing the use of recycling materials or hydrogen technology. Knowledge section at a glance Sector coupling Sector coupling is the idea of linking sectors that consume energy, such as the industry, building and transport sector – with the power producing sector and then optimizing them together. If renewable energies are used, CO 2 emissions are significantly reduced. Additional storage technologies balance out the volatile renewable energies. Watch ELEC Video GHG Protocol | Greenhouse Gas Protocol The GHG Protocol provides a globally standardized framework for measuring and managing greenhouse gas emissions from the private and public sectors, value chains, and mitigation activities. According to the GHG Protocol's leading corporate standard, corporate greenhouse gas emissions are divided into three categories, known as scopes. Learn more SBTi | Science Based Targets initiative The SBTi is a collaboration between several environmental initiatives that more than 1,500 companies have joined since 2015 to establish a science-based climate target. It provides the right tools to set science-based net zero targets and limit global temperature rise above pre-industrial levels to 1.5 °C. Learn more CDP | Carbon Disclosure Project The CDP helps convince companies around the world to measure, manage, disclose and ultimately reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. As international non-profit charity, CDP collects this type of corporate climate change data and makes it available to the market. Learn more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025