Our Blue partnerships and more Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Blue: Close collaborations for clean energy It’s working together that makes the energy transition work At Siemens Energy, we see a partnership as much more than a simple supplier-client relationship. It goes way beyond the placing and delivery of an order. Rather, it's a close alliance between both parties. We work together towards a shared goal, co-creating the end solution by exchanging ideas and expertise at every stage. We have fostered this collaborative, interactive approach from the earliest days of the Blue portfolio . For example, back in 2018 we joined forces with Iljin Electric to produce the first SF 6 -free 170 kV GIS with vacuum technology. And it's an approach we have found to be mutually beneficial in every case since. Innovation is boosted on both sides, costs are shared and the optimal solution is reached more quickly. Working together for clean high-voltage switchgear Backed by EU funding and in partnership with Elia, operator of the electricity transmission network in Belgium, the LIFE Blue project is set to demonstrate for the first time the economic viability of a climate-friendly and completely F-gas free 420 kV GIS. Read more on the importance and potential of this ongoing development. Learn more on the EU LIFE funding project Projects built on partnerships Leading the switch to SF6-free switchgear The EU has launched a multi-million euro project to reduce greenhouse gases across the entire energy chain – in particular, SF6 gas. Read how we’re working together with eleven other partners from nine countries to achieve this. Learn more on the EU MISSION funding project Read LinkedIn story A collective commitment Together with five other leading power equipment manufacturers, we have formed the Switching Gears for Net Zero Alliance . To prevent harm to the environment and to human health, we are campaigning for: F-gases to be phased out where clean alternatives are commercially available Reporting obligations on F-gases to be extended EU policymakers to support the European Commission's timeframe for eliminating F-gases in power grids Learn more Agreement made with Mitsubishi Electric Siemens Energy has signed a formal agreement with Mitsubishi Electric to work closely together on the development of high-voltage switchgear with zero GWF. Methods for scaling up the application of clean air insulation technology to higher voltage are being researched, with a 245 kV dead tank circuit breaker being the first joint project. This collaboration will speed up the availability of cleaner solutions for customers around the world. Learn more A partnership. A pledge. Together with other leading electrical transmission and distribution (T&D) manufacturers, we have signed a joint commitment to deliver equipment free of F-gases and PFAS-gases. In conjunction with the increasing use of renewable energy sources, we will make truly sustainable, climate-neutral power grids a reality and facilitate the transition to net zero emission economies. Learn more TransnetBW award winners from left to right: Dr. Ulf Katschinski and Markus Klinner from Siemens Energy Blue is honored! Siemens Energy is the winner of this years TransnetBW supplier award in the category sustainability. We would like to say „Thank you!" to our customers, who put so much trust into our sustainable products, with Zero compromise in environmental protection and performance. Meet to greet the future We were delighted to bring together valued customers from the US at our Berlin factory to demonstrate the latest developments in our Blue portfolio - in particular, our Blue Dead Tank with clean air insulation. The factory is now 100% powered by renewable energy, providing our customers with the reassurance that we are making the whole supply chain as clean and sustainable as possible. The Blue portfolio To decarbonize the energy industry, it's essential we make the transmission of power as clean and green as its generation. This means eliminating climate-hostile SF 6 gas from electrical switchgear as soon as possible. Our Blue portfolio, based on clean air and vacuum switching technology, provides a viable, reliable and already available alternative. Zero F-gases, Zero toxicity and Zero harm to human health and the environment. Find out more about the future-ready Blue portfolio. Go to the Blue portfolio Contact us Downloads Get in contact with our Sales Support and Customer Service Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your call (+49 911 6505 6505) or online request. Contact form Product information: Explore the Blue portfolio Further reading: Agreement made with Mitsubishi Electric A joint statement of T&D equipment manufacturers Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025