Inclusion and diversity Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 9, 2024 3 min read Inclusion and diversity lead to more innovative solutions by Marta Jimeno Diversity Sustainability How to create a better workplace? It’s a question that Marta Jimeno tries to answer in her work for the Siemens Energy Inclusion & Diversity Program, and one thing is clear: It’s going to take people and ideas from all parts of society to make it happen. Marta explains how the company is doing it. “ It’s going to take perspectives from all parts of society to innovate for a sustainable world. Marta Jimeno Head of Inclusion & Diversity Program Office, Siemens Energy This morning I’m preparing for a meeting with my colleagues in Real Estate to discuss strategies on how we can improve accessibility in key locations. Since the anonymous Self-IDentification survey taken in February 2024, projects like this are becoming more effective. We now know a lot more about the ethnicity, disability status, gender and other aspects of our workforce around the world. This information is helping us to be more specific in our goals, and it’s uncovering new opportunities for growth and improvements we hadn’t known about before. For example, some respondents who self-identified as having a disability shared that they sometimes struggle with access to specific resources. This survey data has allowed us to specifically identify where accessibility could be improved. Watch the video: Employees identifying as LGBTQIA+ showed that they wish for increased awareness of the topic within Siemens Energy. As an action, we’re preparing awareness courses for all employees to help prevent discrimination and harassment. In order to address specific I&D topics in different regions of the world, we’ve created 14 regional committees in our branches consisting of employees and managers. And it’s not just lip service. These committees address their ideas directly to Maria Ferraro, who is both Chief Financial Officer and Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer at Siemens Energy. The engagement of our employees grows year after year thanks to our I&D program . Inclusion and diversity offers Siemens Energy a competitive advantage by allowing customers to better identify with the company, says Jimeno. Focusing on making employees feel welcome and integrated helps the company attract and retain talent and leads to the company’s overall success. Diversity impacts our success The truth is that when our employees feel comfortable and integrated, this also impacts our company’s success. It helps us attract and retain talent and leads to more creative and innovative solutions to challenges. What’s more, customers can better identify with our company and products when served by local employees with the same cultural and linguistic backgrounds. In that regard, inclusion and diversity offer us a competitive advantage. And, frankly, it’s going to take perspectives from all parts of society to innovate for a sustainable world. As I see it, inclusion and diversity goes beyond the walls of our company. Encouraging respect and openness to diversity and other identities at Siemens Energy improves the larger society we’re living in. This is also personal concern of mine. I have a son and daughter, and I want to help make the world of work and the world in general a better place for them. Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress on our journey toward a sustainable future: Explore our achievements and ongoing efforts. Learn more Combined video and picture credits: Luis Cerdeira Read more December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm December 9, 2024 3 min read Direct current circuit breakers make power grids more robust December 4, 2023 3 min read Our people fuel sustainability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025