Pipeline Compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Pipeline compressors - compressors for natural gas pipelines World class energy efficiency for world class economics We offer a wide range of pipeline compressors with a choice of axial intake or conventional horizontally opposed suction and discharge nozzles. All designs allow for easy access to compressor internals without the need to remove piping.  With up to 91% polytropic efficiency, our pipeline compressors are second to none in the industry. Each compressor’s aerodynamic assembly is custom engineered to maximize efficiency and operating range. Drives and package options Features Service and support Drives and package options Our pipeline compressors are typically packaged with the driver and all auxiliary systems on a base frame for ease of handling and reduced site installation time. A comprehensive range of industrial and aeroderivative gas turbines from are available as drivers. Fixed and variable speed electric drive systems can be alternatively offered as prime movers. Gas turbines Aeroderivative, industrial and heavy-duty gas turbines up to 65MW Electric motor drives High voltage motors are available in virtually any imaginable configuration and offer power ranges up to 100MW and higher Variable frequency drives We have chosen a range of drives to meet your specific needs with the optimal solution for every type of medium voltage application. Features Flange sizes - inches: 20’’, 24‘’, 30’’, 36’’, 42’’ / mm: 508, 610, 762, 914, 1067 Max inlet flow rates: up to 62,800 ACFM / 106,700 m³/h Maximum working pressure: up to 2250 psi / 155 bar Number of stages: 1 – 5 Maximum power rating: up to 75,000 BHP / 56,000 kW We also provide custom designed compressors covering special performance requirements outside the above ranges such as those frequently required for compressor head stations and natural gas storage and withdrawal operations. Service and Support We provide full installation and commissioning services, as well as comprehensive service support over the lifetime of your equipment, including routine maintenance and repair services, upgrades and retrofits, and condition monitoring. These services can be either provided on demand or as part of long-term service agreements. With our global network of service centers, experienced field service representatives and OEM spare parts we want to ensure that our customers get the most value out of their operating assets. Midstream solutions Optimize your midstream assets with our sustainable solutions We provide complete rotating machinery train solutions, integrated electrical and controls equipment, digital solutions as well as a comprehensive range of services to support you over the entire lifecycle. We are a partner for your energy transition journey offering a variety of strategies and solutions to reach net zero goals, including integration of energy storage solutions, the production and transportation of hydrogen, and the integration of CO 2 capture and compression technologies. Visit Midstream page Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025