Siemens Energy secures major order for the largest LNG-to-power complex in Latin America Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy secures major order for the largest LNG-to-power complex in Latin America Press release November 23, 2021 Munich Turnkey 1.7-gigawatt combined cycle power plant Long-term service agreement and operation & maintenance Affordable and efficient power for around 14 million households Total project amount is approximately €1 billion Siemens Energy has secured an order for the turnkey construction of the combined cycle power plant UTE GNA II in the integrated LNG-to-Power project GNA II, located at Port of Açu, in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro. Construction of the power plant is already ongoing. Customer is the project company Gás Natural Açu (GNA). Following the successful commissioning of GNA I in summer 2021, GNA II will be the second turnkey combined cycle power plant that Siemens Energy will build in the thermoelectric hub and will add further capacity of 1.7 gigawatts (GW). With a combined capacity of 3 GW the two power plants will be able to provide enough electricity for the consumption of around 14 million households. The second order comes with the first application of the highly efficient HL class gas turbine in Brazil. The combined cycle plants powered by liquefied natural gas (LNG) will be the most efficient thermal power plants in Latin America. Total project amount is approximately €1 billion. The picture shows a model of the new combined cycle power plant GNA  II in the Port of Açu in Brasil Final assembly gas turbine factory Berlin The scope for Siemens Energy foresees the entire power island delivery, that consists in three highly efficient HL class gas turbines, one steam turbine, four electric generators and three heat recovery steam generators (HRSG), in addition to instrumentation and control systems. The services offered by Siemens Energy will also cover long-term operation and maintenance (O&M) of the plant, including advanced remote monitoring and diagnostics by the Remote Operation Center, located in Jundiaí, São Paulo. The power plant is being built together with the consortium partner Andrade Gutierrez who will provide the civil works, the infrastructure and the erection works. “Our participation in this outstanding project reinforces how our comprehensive LNG-to-Power approach increases value to our partners, and also meets the need for affordable and reliable energy,” said Jochen Eickholt, Executive Board Member of Siemens Energy AG. “This project is strategic, not only for its grandeur, but also for its geographical location, close to the two main gas pipelines systems in Brazil, in the Northeast and Southeast of the country. And not to forget: Our gas turbines for GNA II are ready to burn hydrogen in the future. This means our technology is future-proof for our customers,” Eickholt added. The Açu Natural Gas project includes the construction of two thermal power plants, as well as an LNG regasification terminal, based on an FSRU (Floating Storage Regasification Unit), plus substations and transmission lines to connect the plants to the National Interconnected System. The thermoelectric complex is part of the Açu Gás Hub, a project under development at the Açu Port Complex aimed to provide a logistical solution for the receipt, processing, conversion to electricity and transport of natural gas in the Campos and Santos basins, as well as for importing and storing LNG. A second phase will comprise additional thermal power projects under the environmental license for 6.4 GW owned by GNA. The construction of the GNA I plant started in January 2018 and this plant began its commercial operation in September 2021. The two power plants will supply energy to regions such as Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro within the National Interconnected System. Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (100 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025