Siemens Energy announces new AI-driven cybersecurity monitor and detection service for the energy industry Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy announces new AI-driven cybersecurity monitor and detection service for the energy industry Press release October 1, 2020 Orlando MDR, powered by Eos.ii™, helps secure the energy transition for small and medium-sized energy companies from the increasing threat of cyberattacks The service’s Eos.ii technology platform and OT security operations center monitors and detects potential cyberthreats in real-time Siemens Energy today announced a new artificial intelligence (AI)-based industrial cybersecurity service, Managed Detection and Response (MDR), powered by Eos.ii, to help small and medium-sized energy companies defend critical infrastructure against cyberattacks. MDR’s technology platform, Eos.ii, leverages AI and machine learning methodologies to gather and model real-time energy asset intelligence. This allows Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts to monitor, detect and uncover attacks before they execute. Armed with actionable insights from MDR’s technology platform, Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts implement precise defense measures in the company’s state-of-the-art operational technology-security operations center (OT-SOC) to defend power generation, oil and gas, renewable energy, and transmission and distribution customers. “As the digital revolution transforms the energy industry, industrial operating environments are becoming increasingly vulnerable to cyberattacks,” said Leo Simonovich, Head of Industrial Cybersecurity at Siemens Energy. “MDR, powered by Eos.ii, is the first AI-driven cybersecurity monitoring solution to proactively detect and prevent cyberattacks targeting critical infrastructure for all operating environments before attackers strike.” With the industrial cybersecurity expertise and proprietary detection technologies from Siemens Energy, MDR is able to collect raw information technology (IT) and operational technology (OT) data from across an industrial operating environment, and then translate – and contextualize – it in real time. This provides a unified picture of anomalous behavior for defenders with actionable insights to stop attacks. Siemens Energy’s MDR system goes beyond conventional monitoring by achieving a deeper understanding of how digital systems relate to the real world. With its unified OT and IT data stream, MDR’s Eos.ii technology platform uses AI and digital twin technology to compare billions of real-time data points against a correctly functioning asset. This provides context for Siemens Energy’s analysts to determine not only which events are abnormal, but which are consequential. The technical achievement of unified data streams and machine learning make an unprecedented platform for targeted, in-depth analysis. Siemens Energy’s MDR solution addresses the energy industry’s need for more sophisticated solutions to put security experts ahead of attackers as each digitally connected energy asset represents a new, possible vulnerability for attackers to strike. Energy companies and utilities are increasingly becoming a prime target for cyberattacks by state and non-state actors launching sophisticated scatter shot, sleeper strike and ransomware attacks against energy and critical infrastructure in broader geo-political or adversarial conflicts. Last year, the Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy conducted a joint study surveying global utilities to assess the industry’s readiness to address the growing threat of cyberattacks. The study found that 64% of respondents said that sophisticated attacks are a top challenge and 54% of those surveyed expected an attack on critical infrastructure in the next 12 months. Additionally, 25% of respondents reported being impacted by mega-attacks with expertise developed by nation-state actors. Links About Managed Detection and Response (MDR) Contact Stacia Licona Siemens Energy, Inc. 15375 Memorial Drive 77079 Houston, TX United States of America stacia.licona@siemens.com +1 (281) 7213402 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (100 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in fiscal year 2019. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025