UPFC PLUS Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Unified power flow controller (UPFC PLUS®) Stabilize AC grids in milliseconds and get the most out of existing infrastructure: Increasingly decentralized energy systems and the associated uncontrolled power flows pose new challenges for the existing, mature grid infrastructure. Thermal overloads in the lines and a growing number of cases in which frequency and voltage come critically close to acceptable range limits, or even exceed them, threaten grid stability and the transmission infrastructure, and often require costly redispatch intervention to deal with current and voltage factors. Compared to traditional power flow controllers, UPFC PLUS® controls power flow in just milliseconds. The unified power flow controller UPFC PLUS® thus stabilizes the AC grid even when critical situations develop suddenly (Grid Code N-1). That means UPFC PLUS® lets you get the most from your existing grid capacity while maintaining maximum protection, reducing the risk of power failures, and minimizing redispatch costs. Arrange a consultation Protection when line outages occur (N-1) Even when sudden faults occur, UPFC PLUS® stabilizes the AC grid, offering highly efficient support for Grid Code N-1 situations affecting the existing grid infrastructure. Its modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology enables a sufficiently rapid response time of just a few milliseconds in order to prevent power failures. UPFC PLUS® N-1 FACTS for a CO₂ free power supply One solution, many benefits With a response time of just milliseconds, UPFC PLUS® is significantly faster than a phase shifter so you can intervene much faster in critical situations. Unlike a phase shifter, UPFC PLUS® is not only able to control power flow but also enables dynamic reactive power compensation and voltage control and it can also compensate for disruptive factors like vibration. System voltages of 220, 400, and 500 kV can be accommodated, and for the 110 kV voltage level, a comparable solution can be implemented with MVDC PLUS®. Semiconductor technology makes UPFC PLUS® freely programmable, so it’s easy to adapt to local requirements and circumstances. UPFC can control power distribution over a wide range, depending on the installed capacity and the nature of the transmission cable. Scope of application of UPFC PLUS® The UPFC PLUS® solution is based on the modular multilevel converter (MMC) architecture from voltage source converters (VSC) in semiconductor technology, as developed by Siemens Energy and already proven in SVC PLUS® and HVDC PLUS®. A unified power flow controller is used to control and influence the electrical energy transmitted through individual lines in intermeshed, supra-regional power networks. UPFC PLUS® can therefore be used to meet specific, contractually agreed power throughputs in intermeshed grids. The scope of application is aimed at high-voltage electricity transmission networks using three-phase AC at voltage ranges of 220 kV to 500 kV, and its control functions make use of power electronics similar to the systems used in HVDC transmission. Unlike HVDC, the power electronics are not used directly for power transmission but to influence and modulate the AC current being transmitted. In power electronics, UPFC is an example of a flexible AC transmission system (FACTS). Like a traffic guidance system Like smart traffic guidance systems, UPFC PLUS® controls the power flow via available line capacity in the AC grid. Reducing throughput costs Short-term, high-volume infeed of renewables often leads to costs for energy throughput via third-party grids. UPFC PLUS® directs the electricity through your own high-voltage grid. Avoiding line overload Unexpectedly high infeed levels from PV systems and wind turbines can cause overloads on individual lines. UPFC PLUS® directs the electricity effectively using available line capacity. Additional information UPFC PLUS® white paper PDF (2 MB) Download UPFC PLUS® brochure PDF (782 KB) Download Grid stabilization brochure PDF (23 MB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025