Worthington (D-R) Footprint &amp; Revamp | References Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications August 17, 2021 2 min read Reference: Worthington (D-R) Footprint & Revamp Story Transform conventional power New Footprint and revamp in a U.S. refinery IST D-R Legacy Worthington SQ6DF Year of completion: 2018 Project Description The existing Worthington steam turbine, built in 1957 has reached the end of its lifecycle and needs to be replaced due to excessive erosion and corrosion on the case itself. Customer’s request to supply a complete replacement steam turbine with a newly designed flow path offering reduced steam consumption. The new case will maintain the same footprint but will be designed with added features to improve reliability and extend the overall life cycle of this steam turbine. Solution As the OEM Siemens was capable of supplying a brand new turbine case upgrading the material and design to meet today’s API 612 standards. In addition, Siemens also met Shell DEP specifications. The entire steam path was upgraded for efficiency and the final outcome yielded an 11% reduction in steam flow. Customer Value The new case was installed within 5 business days with no major complications. Shell refining conducted a performance test and met the guarantee point of 11%. Related links Siemens myAdvisor.com Contact Get in touch Read more September 24, 2020 3 min read Reference: Front admission (SST-600) footprint turbine September 25, 2020 2 min read Footprint: New front admission steam turbine November 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025