Worlds first Sensgear® circuit-breaker Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications March 29, 2020 3 min read Worlds first Sensgear® circuit-breaker Reference Strengthen electrical grids Implementation of the innovative vacuum switching technology in combination with a digitally enhanced circuit-breaker for transmission grid operator (TSO) ENEA. Entering the 110 kV voltage range of TSO ENEA with Blue circuit-breaker The small hydropower plant Żur in the northern part of Poland was first commissioned in 1927. Due to an increasing demand of energy its output level of 7 MW required an increase of the transmission voltage level up to 110 kV. To reach a higher voltage range and to keep up the substation’s operation the installation of a new circuit-breaker became necessary. The customer decided to install Siemens Energy’ new 3AV1 circuit-breaker. The Blue circuit-breaker is currently available for voltages of up to 145 kV. It is based on the proven vacuum switching technology in combination with the environmentally friendly and CO2-neutral insulation media called Clean Air. The vacuum chamber stays reliable and powerful even with frequent switching operations. To meet the customers technical approach the circuit-breaker had also to be digitally enhanced as Sensgear®. Adding transparency, enhancing productivity and advancing product intelligence The future substation connects the hydropower plant Żur with the 110 kV grid of the polish transmission grid operator ENEA - one of the biggest utilities in Poland. With the Blue Sensgear® circuit-breaker a robust cloud-connectivity is integrated, providing the customer with near real-time information mainly on gas density, temperature conditions, switching operation count and breaker position. All data are accessible via cloud-connection from all over the world with any mobile device or computer. “ We are proud of the close cooperation with our customer, who granted us full access to his cloud data for the exchange of experience and co-creating advanced functions. Dr. Ulf Katschinski Head of the business unit Switching Products and Systems of Siemens Energy Transmission Installation of a digital circuit-breaker without CO2 emission Siemens Energy’ Blue Sensgear® circuit-breaker for a hydropower plant in Poland, which combine the two trends decarbonization and digitalization, paves the way into a sustainable approach for a substation of the future. With Sensgear® Siemens Energy is offering its customers connective transmission products, utilizing data for the optimization of grid operations and business decisions. “ As an energy provider, we have a social and environmental responsibility. That is why we are happy to invest in order to make our substation even more reliable and eco-friendly. Furthermore, a monitoring system is included in the intelligent circuit-breaker, which allows us to better control our assets. This intelligence serves as an important step towards digitalization that makes us well-equipped for the future. Maciej Domżalski from ENEA UN sustainability goals As a leader in innovations with comprehensive, connective and sustainable portfolio, Siemens Energy Transmission is supporting the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals number 3 “good health and well-being”, 7 “Affordable and clean energy”, 8 “Decent work and economic growth”, 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure", 11 “Sustainable cities and communities”, 14 “Life below water” and 15 "Living on land". Siemens Energy Transmission Transmission products play a vital role in the energy value chain. Siemens Energy Transmission offers all key elements including power transformers, gas-insulated and / or air-insulated switchgear and components, individually or bundled, with related engineering. With our global factory network and leading innovations we provide the highest level of quality and reliability to support our customers in achieving their objectives. Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025