Difficult but doable: driving industry decarbonization Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Driving the decarbonization of industry on an industrial scale We help industrial companies significantly reduce their carbon footprint Decarbonizing industry The industrial sector is responsible for 30% of global emissions. An annual CO 2 reduction of over five gigatons is needed. However, we can enable our customers to cut emissions through new technologies and greater energy efficiency. Making progress with our customers Our technologies are transforming transportation. Together with Norwegian shipbuilder Fjellstrand, we have helped build the world’s first battery-powered car and passenger ferry. The owner Norled will reduce fuel costs by up to 60% and avoid 300,000 tons of CO 2 emissions compared to conventional ferries. "The decarbonized future is emerging. It leads to the modernization of industry, bears the chance of competitiveness, and, thus, creates and ensures jobs." Anne-Laure de Chammard, Member of the Executive Board, Siemens Energy Specific challenges and solutions Our focus is on two areas: Conversion processes Industrial emissions can be significantly lowered through improved energy efficiency. By upgrading power equipment our customers already have installed, we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Wherever possible, we implement direct electrification, since this is the most efficient use of energy and avoids emissions incurred in conversion processes. Hydrogen infrastructure In circumstances where direct electrification is not possible, we are driving forward the use of hydrogen infrastructure. Hydrogen will play a central role in the decarbonization of the shipping and aviation industries, as well as in industrial processes where it can be used directly in its chemical form. Energy transition targets We have definite aims for the decarbonization of industry: Increasing production capacity for hydrogen technologies, including the development of a gigawatt-scale facility for manufacturing electrolyzers in Berlin Supporting our partners in increasing fuel efficiency, through super-efficient gas turbines, performance enhancement solutions and hydrogen co-firing upgrades To be the leading provider of carbon-reducing solutions for industry Ramping up renewables Siemens Energy and Air Liquide have formed a joint venture to produce large-scale renewable hydrogen electrolyzers. This partnership, set up to enable the growth of a sustainable hydrogen economy in Europe, will deliver an annual production capacity of three gigawatts by 2025. Read more Certifiably cleaner energy To track the use of renewables from source to consumption, Siemens Energy has developed the blockchain-based CertaLink™ Energy Certification. A pilot project, implemented in partnership with Nobian and envia THERM, is running at Nobian’s chlor-alkali electrolysis plant in Bitterfeld, Germany. Read more Have you read? May 12, 2021 8 min read How the chemical industry can improve its climate footprint October 7, 2022 5 min read Tackling petrochemicals’ energy transition with hydrogen Go to story hub Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025