Siemens Energy to help Total achieve low-emission goals for largest LNG project in Africa Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to help Total achieve low-emission goals for largest LNG project in Africa Press release October 14, 2020 Munich The project represents Mozambique’s first onshore LNG development Siemens Energy gas turbines will help generate low-emission power onsite CCS JV (a joint venture between Saipem and McDermott) recently selected Siemens Energy to supply emissions-reducing power generation equipment and boil-off gas compressors for the Mozambique LNG Project in the Cabo Delgado province on Africa’s East Coast. The project, led by TOTAL E&P Mozambique Area 1, includes the development of offshore gas fields in Mozambique’s Area 1 and a liquefaction plant with a capacity in excess of 12 million tons per year. The SGT-800 gas turbines that will be used for this project are equipped with a robust, dry low-emission combustion system that enables world-class emission performance over a wide load range. As part of the contract, Siemens Energy will supply six SGT-800 industrial gas turbines that will be used for low-emissions onsite power generation. With more than eight million total fleet operating hours and more than 400 units sold, the SGT-800 turbine is ideally suited for power generation, particularly in LNG applications, where reliability and efficiency are critical. The 54MW turbine rating selected for this project has a gross efficiency of 39 percent. It is equipped with a robust, dry low-emission (DLE) combustion system that enables world-class emission performance over a wide load range. “Mozambique LNG is the country’s first onshore LNG development project and will play a key role in meeting the increasing demand for energy in the Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Indian sub-continent markets,” said Thorbjoern Fors, Executive Vice President for Siemens Energy Industrial Applications. “We look forward to helping Total drive toward the lowest possible plant emissions profile and contributing to its goal of delivering clean, reliable energy to customers across the globe.” Siemens Energy will also supply four centrifugal compressors for boil-off gas (BOG) service. A key feature of these compressors is the inlet guide vane (IGV) system that allows for optimization of power consumption according to changes in operational parameters such as inlet temperature and outlet pressure. The gas turbines are slated for delivery in the second half of 2021 and the first half of 2022. The delivery of the compressors is scheduled for 2021. “We’re proud to be part of this important project as a supplier of reliable, field-proven rotating equipment that will help contribute to the long-term economic growth of Mozambique and the prosperity of its citizens,” said Arja Talakar, Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy. The equipment order for the Mozambique LNG project comes on the heels of a recent agreement between Total and Siemens Energy to advance new concepts for low-emissions LNG production. As part of the contract, Siemens Energy is conducting studies to explore a variety of possible liquefaction and power generation plant designs, with the goal of decarbonizing LNG facility development and operation. For further information on SGT-800 gas turbines, see Siemens Energy Gas Turbines . Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (319 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in fiscal year 2019. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025