High voltage direct current services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Services for High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) We provide availability of up to 99 % for high-voltage DC transmission Contact us Ensuring reliable high-voltage DC transmission for decades Siemens Energy high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission has proven its high performance and reliability for many years. Nevertheless, during the long lifecycle of HVDC, various services are required to support its optimalfunctionality and the economically safe operation throughout the years. Comprehensive services for all kinds of HVDC Bringing energy from remote renewable energy generators to consumers and providing compensation for regional fluctuations in the production or consumption of electricity thanks to trans-national grid connections: HVDC transmission operators have to make sure their system provides the highest availability, performance, and efficiency at all times. One pillar to fulfill this challenge is our best-in-class HVDC hardware and software, but that alone is not enough to guarantee efficiency, security, and reliability for decades. Your system also needs regular maintenance, modernization, security checks and updates. Siemens Energy can provide you with comprehensive services to increase the transparency of your HVDC system as a prerequisite for optimization and to ensure continuous availability as well as the highest possible performance. Are you looking for preventive and corrective maintenance, sophisticated spare parts management, and modernization or retrofitting of older systems? If so, we will be at your side with our specific HVDC know-how and a wide-ranging service portfolio to ensure a highly available, secure, and cost-efficient HVDC operation as well as compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Highlight services for HVDC at a glance Siemens Energy offers you a wide range of individualized services for your HVDC system, including our cyber security services for reliable and secure HVDC systems of the future Cyber Security Services for HVDC you can count on Cyber threats are increasing with serious consequences for companies and communities worldwide. Critical infrastructure, such as power transmission systems, is increasingly becoming the main focus. Today, IT systems are the foundation of critical processes for most companies. This leads to significantly increased risks of being attacked by hackers or viruses, and patching software weaknesses is not a onetime task but an ongoing endeavor throughout the system’s lifetime. For these reasons, Siemens Energy has developed a comprehensive cyber security service portfolio for HVDC to support you. Cyber Security Services Comprehensive services for your HVDC system From reactive to proactive services, from repair and spare parts to service programs – our service portfolio for all kinds of high-voltage DC systems covers everything you need to keep your system up and running efficiently and up to date. See comprehensive details for our HVDC services below. Maintenance contracts Preventive/scheduled maintenance work according to OEM recommendations Qualified local expert personnel Increase asset reliability and lifetime expectancy Computerized maintenance management system Software/hardware package for maintenance planning and controlling Specific work orders with detailed work procedures Detailed resource planning and expert selection Field service and repair Fast response by qualified local service experts Access to our global network of experts for additional support Minimized outage time Spares Consulting Individual consulting solutions for new strategic & operational spares as well as for already existing customer spares Spare parts management Provision of high-quality spares across all applied technologies and asset generations Reliable global supply of single parts, parts kits and complete spare modules for planned and unplanned maintenance measures Managed spares service models Obsolescence management Provision of detailed information (internal/external) on obsolete parts and products in our globally installed base Recommendations for remedial action, including retrofits, modernizations, last calls for replacement spares or disposal Modernization and retrofit Software/hardware to prolong your HVDC assets lifetime, support and spare parts availability Minimized downtime and greater availability Handling new technology requirements Refurbishment Overhaul of HVDC equipment to prolong its lifetime and increase its availability High-quality work according to OEM standards Dedicated functional testing according to industrial standards before re-installation Upgrade and update Update your HVDC system with state-of-the-art solutions to improve asset efficiency and performance Implementation of new features and functionality Complete functional testing of new systems Extensions Extension of your existing HVDC assets according to growing demand and needs Proven adapter solutions if required Bypass solutions etc. to reduce outage time during installation of extension Condition monitoring and diagnostics Monitoring of your most critical HVDC assets Analysis of dynamic asset conditions allows operation of your HVDC assets up to real-time rating (asset performance management) Remote services Our dedicated Customer Support Center automatically identifies critical situations Experts conduct remote analysis and give recommendations Reliable and secure data connection Cyber security Security concepts and patch management Compliance with NERC CIP and BDEW white paper standards Qualification and training Customized trainings and continuous qualification of your service personnel in terms of HVDC Classroom, test field, and onsite trainings Experienced engineers as trainers Technical support/hotline Immediate 2 nd and 3 rd level technical senior expert support via telephone (24/7h or 8/5h) Utilization of internal engineering department Coordination with key sub-suppliers Technical support via remote access Online failure analysis via Common Remote Service Platform (cRSP) Access to experts regardless of location Secured remote access to your HVDC systems On-site condition assessment (“Health Check”) On-site HVDC asset evaluation and testing Detailed condition report and early warning indication Recommendation plan for availability improvement and lifetime extension Asset management and advisory services Vendor-independent consulting and forecasting of HVDC asset health and risk Software and consulting services enabling you to optimize asset management (OPEX, CAPEX) Operations Carefree, complete HVDC system operations by qualified Siemens Energy employees Utilization of operational best practices gained through many of our systems around the globe High performance and availability through on-site experts Warranty and availability guarantee extensions Extended asset warranty Individually-fixed availability ratings Customized agreement on bonus/malus system Reduced risk for return on investment Service programs Operation and maintenance services and Individualized “care-free packages” Guaranteed performance by defined KPI’s Special service projects, customer support, operation, maintenance, and management services Services for power transmission Read more Services for breakers and switchgear Read more Services for transformers Read more Services for FACTS Read more Services for offshore grid connections Read more Services for overhead lines Read more Download Transmission Service Portfolio PDF (224 KB) Download HVDC services on all continents We successfully deliver fast, competent, and reliable product support for high-voltage DC transmission to all corners of the earth. Preventive maintenance for the most powerful HVDC system worldwide Siemens constructed the power converter stations for the two HVDC links – each 1000 MW – INELFE between Baixas, west of Perpignan in France, and Santa Llogaiaj, Spain. During the annual maintenance outage, Siemens is responsible for the overall management, expert supervision, maintenance planning, engineering expertise, and maintenance technical support and coordination. In only three days, all maintenance work associated with the corresponding converter stations was successfully completed as planned. First Siemens HVDC modernization project in the United States In 2015, American Electric Power (AEP) comissioned Siemens to upgrade the 20-year-old Welsh HVDC back-to-back system at its 600-megawatt Welsh HVDC station in Titus County. The modernization included installing new control and protection technologies, replacing the cooling, heating and ventilation, and incorporating new harmonic filters and shunt reactors. Siemens installed the original HVDC classic station in 1994. Read more Long-term maintenance contract for the Moyle Interconnector Project Since handing over the Moyle Interconnector to Mutual Energy in 2001, Siemens has also been responsible for the maintenance of the link. The maintenance package includes not only routine and preventative maintenance, but also fault finding and repair. In the event of an incident, 24/7 response is ensured, and the time for fault recovery is minimized. As a result, a high degree of plant safety, reliability and availability is achieved. Preventive maintenance of multiple substations Since 2002, Siemens has been awarded with preventive maintenance of more than 80 high-voltage substations in Kuwait. Siemens delivers original manufacturer expertise, products, and consultancy, e.g. for maintining power and station transformers, gas insulated switchgear as well as GIS and air insulated switchgear. The integrated solution from one source is based on OEM expertise for installed assets ensures the availability of the transmission and distribution system. Get in contact with our Customer Support Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? Do you need support for your installed equipment? Do you have a technical question? Do you need something totally different? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your request. Contact form Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025