Project management in gas services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services by Pakizer, Kris Career Meet Amanda McCormick, a project manager in Gas Services at Siemens Energy, who excels at overcoming complex challenges. With over 12 years of experience, she has led innovative projects like the Constellation project. Outside of work, Amanda enjoys roller coasters and has traveled to 45 countries, taking over 80 cruises. A former Flowriding Championships winner, her love for music and adventure drives her positive outlook. Join us in celebrating her commitment to excellence and teamwork. From braving the fastest roller coasters to cruising around the world with Royal Caribbean, Orlando employee Amanda McCormick seeks out new adventures both on and off the clock. Her willingness to embrace the unknown is why Amanda excels in her role as a project manager for complex projects in Gas Services . Empowering innovation: Amanda’s journey in gas turbine mods and upgrades at Siemens Energy Amanda oversees the mods and upgrades on gas turbines. Working closely with the team of engineers, buyers, field service, finance and customers means she touches every part of an outage. “The best part of my job is working on first-time applications – the innovative projects. I like that we learn on the fly, problem-solving with the engineers as we go. I get to learn something new almost every day ,” she explains. “ The best part of my job is working on first-time applications – the innovative projects. I like that we learn on the fly, problem-solving with the engineers as we go. I get to learn something new almost every day. Amanda McCormick She began her career at Siemens Energy 12 years ago learning all about the business as a warranty engineer. She then spent several years solely working on V machine upgrades, becoming a subject matter expert. She then transitioned into long-term program management, providing her with a broader perspective on larger contracts. Currently, she is back in mods and upgrades, where she can work on one of her favorite projects to date—the Constellation project—further solidifying her career path in the energy sector. Driving change: Amanda’s impact on gas turbine innovations and team collaboration at Siemens Energy “It was exciting to be part of the groundbreaking technology test at Constellation’s Hillabee Generating Station,” Amanda says. “I worked with engineering and our vendors on the hardware procurement and delivery of all the components that went into the hydrogen test, keeping the customer informed of scheduling along the way.” The project wasn’t without its challenges. “We had just 6 months from conception to implementation on what would normally be a two-year project! Plus, it was over the holiday months and during the peak of outage season.” But the stress that comes with such a high-impact project didn’t faze the team. “Knowing that you can lean on team members to help you through challenging times makes everything easier,” Amanda says . “You don’t have to solve every problem on your own. If an issue comes up, the entire team jumps in to help. By sharing issues, we can keep them from becoming bigger ones.” “In the end, we set an industry record for blending high concentrations of hydrogen with natural gas! This is fantastic, not only for Siemens Energy, but also the US.” “ Knowing that you can lean on team members to help you through challenging times makes everything easier. Amanda McCormick We are always on the lookout for people to join our team. From braving the fastest roller coasters to cruising around the world with Royal Caribbean, Orlando employee Amanda McCormick seeks out new adventures both on and off the clock. Setting records is nothing new to Amanda. In 2010, she placed first in the World Flowriding Championships at Wavehouse Sentosa in Singapore in the Ladies Division. Flowriding is like skateboarding on water, only the water is shooting up at you at speeds up to 30 mph on an artificial sheet wave where you perform tricks like shuv-its, ollies, and 360s. Amanda doesn’t flowboard professionally anymore, but she does carve the epic wave when she’s on a cruise, which, it turns out, is frequently. “I’ve traveled to 45 countries and taken more than 80 cruises to amazing places like Egypt, Australia and the Mediterranean. In November I’m taking my dream trip to the Maldives, which will include a cruise to Singapore,” she says. Her extensive travels have provided Amanda the opportunity to pursue her two other favorite hobbies. She loves music of all kinds and attends about 30 concerts a year, from Mitchell Tenpenny to Adele. Not one to remain stationary for long, she also craves a thrilling roller coaster ride. While her favorite coaster is the Manta® at Sea World Orlando, the scariest was Cedar Point’s Top Thrill Dragster, which speeds from 0 to 120 mph in 4 seconds, then climbs straight up a 420-foot tower and freefalls 90 degrees down the other side. All in 30 seconds! Amanda brings her enthusiasm for living large to work as well. “Do what makes you happy. I’m fortunate to have a job that I love, working with diverse people around the world to provide something everyone needs – power. If you make a living doing something you love, it brings positivity to your life. And that makes it easy to get up and go to work each day.” Be the change: contribute to global energy solutions with Siemens Energy Did you know that 770 million people still lack access to energy? Your expertise is essential in providing reliable, affordable, and climate-neutral energy solutions for everyone. At Siemens Energy, you can advance your career path while making a significant contribution to the transformation of the energy landscape. Join our diverse teams in engineering, field service, and manufacturing, and take the first step toward creating a meaningful impact today. Learn More! Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Read more March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career January 6, 2025 3 min read Creating colorful new traditions at Siemens Energy See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025