SIPAPER services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SIPAPER Services New technologies and digitalization constantly impacts your industry and plant productivity. To keep your people, equipment and valuable resources on pace with production goals, you will need quick response and expert support to find a solution to your production problems. With Fiber Industry Specific Service Concept, Siemens Energy is offering customers technology-based services that extend far beyond standard product services. These service offerings give our customers the option to access to SIPAPER Drive and SIPAPER DCS experts at any time to address unforeseen problems during production. Contact our experts Key areas of improvement Improve energy efficiency Ensure process efficiency Machine and plant reliability Protect investments Industrial Security Services Digital Industry Services As an energy manager or production manager, you are directly responsible for the energy costs and the consumption of resources in your production.  Energy Analytics, the cloud-based energy data management service, help you to achieve these goals. Energy analytics Energy Management Services provides a seamless and scalable service portfolio for the entire plant – from consulting over implementation up to optimization. In doing so different types of energy losses are getting considered and analyzed. The portfolio of Industrial Energy Management Services is divided in the three steps consulting, implementation and optimization. Each of the three steps gets defined during discussion with the customer so that a seamless and scalable service is possible. As a result, you will benefit: Transparency on your energy consumption and KPIs Use of Siemens Energy expert know-how on data analytics to identify energy saving potential Improve competitiveness If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Energy performace contracting Drive applications, which account for nearly two thirds of industrial electricity use, represent one of the biggest opportunities for electricity and cost savings. Savings of up to 30 percent can be achieved within drive applications. The projects are structured so that only a portion of the savings are used for the service rate and the rest of the savings remains as a direct benefit for the customer. Energy Performance Contracting entails low risk in the project development phase and offers strong savings certainty. All this makes Siemens Energy the perfect partner for your next energy efficiency project! If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Modernization services These services reliably reduce the rising maintenance costs associated with an advanced lifecycle and increase plant availability. They also help identify and utilize additional efficiency and energy-saving potential – for example, by using energy-saving components and integrating them intelligently into the automation environment.  With Modernization services, Siemens Energy could: Minimized unplanned downtimes: By upgrading an existing product or system to the latest technology and safety standards, a smooth and reliable operation can be ensured. Reduced costs: The modernization of machines and drive systems or automation and process systems is usually the more economical solution for prolonging the lifecycle of the entire plant. Step-by-step digitalization: By modernizing installed components you get a comprehensive update to the latest technology standards, including Totally Integrated Automation, communication, and diagnostics. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Simatic virtualization as a service SIMATIC Virtualization as a Service adopts an entirely new approach to ensure the best possible maintenance and upgrades of PC-based distributed control systems. The comprehensive service strategy draws on the opportunities offered by digitalization to virtualize the entire system. This lets you address your core requirements with maximum effectiveness and economic efficiency: the best possible use of hardware, easy system expansions and/or updates, central administration and maintenance, and fast and professional support when the need arises – measures that will ensure maximum availability. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. In industry, all unscheduled downtime for machines or plants must be resolved as quickly as possible. Our experienced experts are available to assist you worldwide – online, by phone, or directly at your site, around the clock.  Our goal is clear: to restore the functionality of your machines and plants as quickly as possible when an event occurs. Online support Fiber plants face many challenges in keeping production assets running optimally. Increase productivity, quality, reliability and efficiency are essential while maintaining a safe working environment. We can help and support you with our SIPAPER Drive and DCS experts to achieve these challenges. Let our experts help you with: Identifying problems and deficiencies Developing sustainable solutions Improving process stability Recommending service solutions such as, optimization, upgrades, Life Cycle Services If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Technical support New technologies and digitalization constantly impact your industry and plant productivity. To keep your people, equipment and valuable resources on pace with production goals, you will need quick response and expert support to find a solution to your production problems. With Fiber Industry Specific Service Concept, Siemens Energy is offering customers technology-based services that extend far beyond standard product services. These service offerings give our customers the option to access to SIPAPER Drive and SIPAPER DCS experts at any time to address unforeseen problems during production. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Remote support Remote support for industrial drive systems and automation provides a high level of flexibility and system availability. The remote connection not only makes it possible to determine the causes of system problems faster and more efficiently, but also enables these issues to be corrected quickly and intelligently from a remote location. Siemens Energy values confidentiality and long-term partnerships, which is why data security is given the highest priority. Before implementing an enhanced service package with remote support, an in-depth analysis of the situation is conducted, considering national and international regulations and certifications, as well as technical infrastructures. Siemens Energy experts can connect to customer equipment such as automation / drive engineering station via Siemens secure remote connection or alternatively via established end-customer interface for remote connectivity. Our experts can also collaborate securely via video, chat via Remote collaboration platform. Emergency call and service centers are available 24/7. Trained specialists are always standing by to provide remote assistance If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Support and consulting services Being and staying competitive in a fast-changing market environment is one of the top priorities for companies. The ongoing digitalization has a huge impact here and offers us new possibilities. Our SIPAPER service experts provide you with long-term Fiber industry knowledge, future-minded thinking and comprehensive consulting skills. We build your results together with you! These can come in the form of a more efficient preventive maintenance approach, energy reduction, sustainability, a more innovative production process or an individual digitalization strategy – all tailored to your needs and business drivers. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Training Siemens Energy technical training is designed to build the critical skills needed to support your business. Developing technical skills consistently proves to be a great investment producing immediate results with staff utilization, downtime reduction, project efficiency and overall equipment effectiveness. Our Training programs bundles useful information, valuable data, and up-to date expert knowledge on Siemens products and solutions for Fiber industry.  We offer you individualized ways to build your knowledge, along with access to digital training courses. Take advantage of lasting, successful learning with a wide variety of learning methods – whenever, wherever, and however you need it. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Our service portfolio helps you to optimize the operation of your machines and plants without needing additional resources or knowledge. This involves reports, expert recommendations and decision-making support as well as product related support for Siemens Energy and selected third-party components. Lifecycle information services Lifecycle services provide you with bundled services which are seamlessly matched to a specific product, system or solution. They are based on the long-term industry expertise and technical knowledge of our service experts and help to optimize the lifecycle or implement a new innovative approach. As a result, you will benefit; Minimized unplanned downtimes: Individually-set reaction times result in fast support from service experts in case of an emergency. Focus on the core business: Service experts handle your service activities while you can focus on what you can do best: your core business. Reduced costs: Optimized service measures enable efficient planning of maintenance resources and, thus, lower costs If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Remote support Maximum availability requires the fastest possible reaction time. If an alarm is triggered, you can immediately contact a service expert. With your permission, relevant data is accessed via a secure remote connection. All analysis, diagnostic, and intervention options can therefore be utilized within a very short time frame. Remote support for industrial drive systems and automation provides a high level of flexibility and system availability. The remote connection not only makes it possible to determine the causes of system problems faster and more efficiently, but also enables these issues to be corrected quickly and intelligently from a remote location. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Energy analytics The crucial factor for maximum energy efficiency is to reduce energy consumption to what is required for the specific application by implementing a comprehensive set of measures. To accomplish this, we compare the costs and benefits of possible savings, design the drive components according to the requirements, and formulate the ideal approach for the sustainable implementation of the entire concept. Siemens Energy Services offers complete support for this approach, including qualified consulting services, engineering and project management by drive and automation specialists with extensive experience in Fiber industry. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Drive train analytics Identification of weak points at an early stage, rapid troubleshooting, ideal planning of maintenance and servicing activities, optimization of spare parts stock– these are challenges confronting today’s plant operators. The important thing is to keep a constant watch on the condition of your plant. The advance of digitalization provides a number of solutions.  Remote Diagnostics allows you to continuously monitor your drive train components. Motors are monitored using a permanently installed condition monitoring system. The parameters measured are recorded directly on site and accessed and analyzed by our service experts via a secure remote connection at defined time intervals. In this way, changes in operating condition can be detected at an early stage and the appropriate countermeasures can be promptly taken. In addition to the hardware, connectivity, and platform, with Digital Drive Train Services we also offer you the associated Digital Services – throughout the entire drive train. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Integral plant management Plant-specific asset management services help avoiding unscheduled downtime. These contracts include support and management for the maintenance of your operations, and the assumption of responsibility for on-site maintenance. Reliability is ensured with the aid of digital solutions in condition monitoring services, through computerized maintenance management systems. With our services, you benefit: Improved reliability of your plant Minimization of unscheduled downtimes and outages Performance based contracts One maintenance partner for your plant If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Industry services help you to safeguard your investments through the smart use of your plant data by providing reliable insights about the condition of your individual components and the probability of possible failure. Service programs and agreements Siemens Energy is offering specially assembled service programs to address the requirements of your plant needs. These service contracts are individually configurable, customized service packages for a system or product group from automation and drive technology. They make the preventive maintenance, optimization and modernization of automation and drive technology in Fiber industry more efficient and powerful while reducing costs. The individual services across the lifecycle are seamlessly coordinated with each other and support the optimal use of machines and plants. Flexible options, such as extended service periods, defined arrival times or special maintenance intervals, can be tailored to meet the customer’s needs. The extensive special knowledge of the Siemens Energy specialists, reduced downtimes, predictable operating costs and the relief of company’s own maintenance resources ensure high availability and productivity of all machines and plants. Special advantages lie in the reduction of interfaces for the preventive maintenance, the reduction of downtimes and the predictability of costs. The optional remote maintenance support allows a particularly fast response to irregularities in many cases. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Spare part services A systematically optimized supply of spare parts plays a crucial role in maintaining a balance between high plant availability and productivity on the one hand and minimal capital lock-up in spare parts inventory on the other. Spare parts inventory and logistics offer considerable potential for improvement that can lead to lower costs. Many companies underestimate the amount of these savings. In this context, finding the right balance between technical necessity and economic feasibility is a challenge. Siemens Energy could help and support: Definition of spare parts packages with regional and central availability Definition of spare parts with quick availability (customer warehouse) Proposals for inventory management Concept for logistical infrastructure and inventory replacement / lead times Costing Optimized central and regional inventory structures If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Repair services Siemens Energy repair services comprise all measures of examination and possibly restoring agreed functionalities of a products and process. As part of repairs, improvements of the functionality are also possible. The Siemens Energy experts analyze, repair, maintain and optimize your components on manufacturer level. They take on all service tasks over the entire product lifecycle, from the functional maintenance right up to increase of performance. Your benefit from our service will be: Repairs on the high-quality level of the manufacturer Transparency over the services carried out, and the parts used through repair reports Warranty claims for the carried-out repair service. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Retrofit and modernization services Minimum downtime and the optimum use of staff and resources are key to sustainable success in Fiber industry. Siemens Energy provides the basis for greater productivity, flexibility, and efficiency with retrofit and modernization services throughout the lifecycle of an industrial plant reliably, globally, and around the clock. In-depth technology and process knowledge as well as industry expertise within Siemens Energy’s global network of experts ensure: Minimized unplanned downtimes: By upgrading an existing product or system to the latest technology and safety standards, a smooth and reliable operation can be ensured. Reduced costs: The modernization of machines and drive systems or automation and process systems is usually the more economical solution for prolonging the lifecycle of the entire plant. Step-by-step digitalization: By modernizing installed components you get a comprehensive update to the latest technology standards, including automation, communication, and diagnostics. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Field and maintenance services Specialists from Siemens Energy Services are available at strategic locations worldwide round the clock to provide fast reliable support with the fault clearance of plants and with the everyday use of products and systems from Siemens Energy. All service deployments are planned and coordinated by the responsible regional service organizations according to the customer’s requirements. That also applies for emergency services outside normal working hours. The range of services for putting paper machines, converters and complete plants into operation comprises: Checking the installation Function tests Parameterization Integration tests on machines and machine components Trial operation Final acceptance testing Training of personnel Siemens Energy also offers regular inspections, preventive maintenance plans and proactive servicing measures, tailored in close consultation with the customer to their specific criteria. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Asset optimization services The growing variety of products and systems, ever shorter innovation cycles, and increasing cost pressures for maintenance are forcing many plant operators to seek new ways to keep costs under control. The results of asset optimization services with Siemens Energy reveal constantly recurring problems: The manufacturer can no longer supply needed spare parts because they have reached the end of the product lifecycle The successor models to replaced or substituted products are either incompatible or only partially compatible After a modernization or upgrade of the plant, the spare parts stock is no longer compatible with the current status of the plant Spare parts are overstocked in the interest of ensuring availability. If you interested in this service? Please contact us at sipaper@siemens-energy.com . We will be glad to help you and provide more detailed information about this service. Digitalization increasingly interconnects industrial facilities. On the one hand this enables numerous new insights based on analyzed data. On the other hand this leads to a higher risk of cyber attacks, which requires an effective protection concept that consists of multiple layers and protects industrial facilities against any threats. Industrial Security Health Check Implementing Security Managing Security Assessing Security Learn more about industrial security Companies face considerable challenges as a result of the digital transformation. As a partner for industry, we can help you to digitalize your value chain to your advantage. We offer individual digital solutions and consulting that is tailored to your needs. Establish plant-wide performance transparency Monitor Machine and plants reliability Secure performance  objectives Learn flexibly and globally Plant protection on multiple levels Learn more about digitalization Services for improving paper machine productivity Troubleshooting of sectional drive Reduction of web breaks Enhancing machine speed Re-optimization drive systems Digitalization @FIBER Pulp and Paper mills face many challenges in keeping production assets running optimally. Increase productivity, quality, reliability and efficiency are essential while maintaining a safe working environment. We can help and support you with our SIPAPER Drive and DCS experts to achieve these challenges. Let our experts help you with: Identifying problems and deficiencies Developing sustainable solutions Improving process stability Recommending service solutions such as, optimization, upgrades, Life Cycle Services Continuously improving your competitive edge is a constant challenge. How could you maintain or improve your competitiveness if you are having interruption with web brakes during production which would affect product quality, productivity, on time shipments and ultimately your customer relations due to quality complaints. With our experts and service portfolio offerings we could: Analyze and locate the sporadic fault Perform root cause analysis Provide preventive measures Recommend service solutions for performance improvements Technology based services with our SIPAPER Drive and SIPAPER DCS experts will provide you the expert support you need to achieve your production goal. One of the performance indicators of your paper machine is SPEED. Is your machine running at designed speed? Are there bottlenecks preventing your operation to achieve production goals? If you need support, our experts can provide: Utilization check and paper machine optimization Analysis of reserves for speed increase Recommendations for upgrades to achieve your production goals Complex drive systems must have a high level of availability to keep the plant running. When you need quick response and expert support, our experts are available 24/7 by using modern, secure communication media via remote access to team up with you to resolve any unforeseen problems. Optimized operation with motors and drives, their selection, dimensioning and correct use can contribute substantial reduction of energy used. Our experts can help and support to optimize your drive system by: Checking overall control concept Performing single control loop analysis Analyzing key process indicators and optimizing control loops Providing continuous improvement measures With today's high demand for fiber, unexpected downtimes and failures in the process can lead to a dramatic loss of money and time. With digitally enhanced electrification and automation, process industries can profit greatly from reduced downtime, optimized plant efficiency and performance. If you want to know: How fit is your company for Digitalization? How does digitalization improve plant performance and maintenance? How can digitalization improve data transparency? How can digital simulation boost the efficiency of processes? Visit digitalization in fiber industry References Greenpac Paper Mill Partners with Siemens Fiber Greenpac Mill is a lightweight recycled linerboard mill in Niagara Falls, New York. Siemens partners up to provide the right solutions for the job. This sustainable, state-of-the-art-mill has the largest linerboard machine in North America. The company and the community surrounding the mill are proud of their positive impact on the environment and economy. How can we help you? If you have questions, comments or feedback, please feel free to contact us. We are ready to help! Contact our experts Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025