Nemo Link supplies electricity across borders Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications September 9, 2022 7 min read Nemo Link supplies electricity across borders Story Expand renewables Strengthen electrical grids Most Europeans have the luxury of taking their electricity supply for granted. This is only possible thanks to the dedicated work of those who build and maintain the energy infrastructure. Our engineers helped construct Nemo Link, an HVDC interconnector between the UK and Belgium – and one of several new high-voltage transmission links connecting Britain’s electricity grid to the national grids of neighboring countries. Others still under construction include ElecLink, which will run through the Channel Tunnel between Britain and France, and the 767-kilometer Viking Link between the UK and Denmark. Forging a powerful link Nemo Link, the first high-voltage interconnector between Belgium and the UK, went into operation in 2019. Today, it is operated as a joint venture between the UK’s National Grid and Belgium’s Elia Group and can supply 1,000 MW of electricity – enough for up to one million homes. As the power can flow in either direction, it allows both countries to benefit from cross-border electricity trading and a more diverse energy mix. Ernest Nkusi, our Technical Project Lead based in Germany, and his team designed the link and was responsible for coordinating our international teams of engineers. “Electricity  can  be  used  to  build bridges,” he says, pointing out that Nemo Link is a perfect example of how the importance of reliable energy connects people in all countries. Ernest Nkusi was responsible for the design and overall coordination of the project. “ Having affordable electricity is something that I want to see worldwide. Ernest Nkusi Technical Project Lead At each end of the link, our engineers constructed the converter stations — in Herdersbrug in Belgium, and in Richborough, in the south-east of England. These facilities house our state-of-the-art HVDC PLUS technology, which enables the low-loss transmission of electricity through 140 kilometers of subsea and underground cables. This is the first interconnector to realize the powerful ±400 kV DC system for HVDC PLUS technology. It is ideal for this kind of application thanks to its low space requirements, high dynamic performance and ability to control the active-reactive power independently. Impressions from the converter station in Belgium Construction of the converter stations was carried out simultaneously, with hundreds of people working on both sides on the English Channel. The various partners and teams from Belgium, the UK and Germany needed to work together, including the client and the many subcontractors who perform a wide range of tasks. Mathieu Donche from Elia Group, the Belgian client partner, says: “What I particularly liked from Siemens Energy on this project is that they put the people first.” One of the client partners, Mathieu Donche, on-site in Herdersbrug “ It was an amazing experience to work with Siemens Energy, because we share the same values. Mathieu Donche Elia Group On the Belgian side, our Project Lead Tom Clauwaert says the highlight for him was the first energization of the converter station. “Although everything has been checked and double-checked, it is still a nervous moment when you see if it really works.” Living a culture of safety As a company, we have a wealth of experience in realizing large-scale projects all over the world. Even so, Nemo Link stands out for its excellent safety record. Roughly a year into its construction, Nemo Link clocked one million hours worked, with no time lost to injuries. In 2017, the project was awarded the Sword of Honour by the British Safety Council – a prestigious award given only to projects that excel in terms of environment, health and safety standards. Tom and his son “ I would never want to go to someone's family to tell them, on my site, something bad happened. Tom Clauwaert Project Lead Belgium To underline the importance of safety, the “Come Home Safe” campaign invited the children of the workers to create drawings of mommy or daddy working safely on site. The idea behind the campaign was to reinforce a culture of safety. “It makes you reflect on the potential impact of dangerous behavior,” says Tom. “I have a five-year-old, and it really took me by the heart.” Drawings done by the employees’ children for the “Come Home Safe” campaign Come together: Integrating Europe’s energy market When people in the UK or Belgium switch on the lights or plug in their phones, they may never realize they’re benefiting from infrastructure that transmits power across borders, but this will occur more and more often. Nemo Link is a significant building block in the broader trend: Europe’s electricity market is becoming increasingly integrated. As interconnectors provide more links between national electricity grids, they offer grid operators more options, boosting stability and security of supply for both countries. They may also make the market more efficient, as excess supply in one country can satisfy demand in another. Grid stability is becoming more urgent with the growing role of renewable energy. Interconnectors help to even out the intermittent production from renewable resources. Without them, clean energy capacity may go to waste while elsewhere fossil-fuel power is required to make up the difference. In the control room in Herdersbrug A reliable energy future Nemo Link was a highly successful project, and the further integration of Europe’s electricity grids is continuing with even greater ambitions: Viking Link will be one of the world’s longest DC cable interconnectors in HVDC VSC technology. Scott Williams, our UK Project Lead on Nemo Link and now on Viking Link, spoke of the importance of trust and open communication in order to manage such a complex project successfully – and we are pleased to carry this over to future projects with National Grid. Ernest was in regular contact with Tom in Belgium and Scott in the UK “ Our relationship with the client and our suppliers was and is one of shared respect, and we acted as one large family. Scott Williams Project Lead UK The UK wants to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Other European countries have similarly ambitious targets. To achieve those aims, many sectors of the economy, such as transportation, are shifting from primary, carbon-containing fuels to electric power. To boost security of supply, national grids can support each other thanks to interconnectors like Nemo Link and Viking Link. “I believe you cannot change the world in one day,” says Tom. “But at least we could start working today on projects which shape the future.” Change the future of energy Tom’s role is just one of our innumerable opportunities to change the future of energy. Join the team around him and make tomorrow different today at Siemens Energy. What we are looking for Meet the people who made it happen If you'd like to go in depth and learn more about the people who designed and built Nemo Link, you can watch the full director's cut version of our film right here. Read more November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition July 18, 2024 8 min read Mastering grid upgrades: the impact of decarbonizing supply chains July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025