Hydrogen Decarbonization Calculator Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Hydrogen Decarbonization Calculator Let Siemens Energy help you reach your decarbonization targets. Calculate your carbon dioxide (CO₂) reduction and cost-savings potential by running your aeroderivative, industrial, and heavy-duty gas turbines fully or partially on hydrogen. Please note that there is an error in the density calculation for natural gas meaning that the volume is stated incorrectly. This is under correction. However, the weight calculation is correct and may be used for the evaluation. H2WebApp 1 Select your turbine and plant configuration. - No turbine selected - Simple Cycle Combined cycle (1×1) Combined Heat and Power (1×) Combined cycle (2×1) Combined cycle (3×1) 2 Select your expected annual operating hours. All figures are based on full load operation. hours/year 3 Select your volume percent of hydrogen fuel or target CO 2 intensity. VOLUME PERCENTAGE OF HYDROGEN 0% 50% 100% 0 g/kWh 0 g/kWh 0 g/kWh CO 2 INTENSITY % g/kWh lb/MWh 4 Select your country of operation to calculate CO 2 savings or enter rate per tonne. - Select country or region - European Union ETS also includes Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein or rate € $ per tonne Error in euro conversion : Couldn't connect to the  conversion service.  Reverting to dollar. Please try again later. SEE YOUR RESULT Results Per hour Annually SI units US units CO 2 Cost savings $0 Emission reduction 0% CO 2 Hydrogen requirements (annually) HYDROGEN FLOW 0 ton Million Sm3 Natural gas requirements (annually) NATURAL GAS FLOW 0 ton Million Sm3 Electrolysis requirements (annually) ELECTRICITY 0 WATER FLOW 0 Your results will be available here once you've selected your production environment. The CO 2 emission data is based on methane. Gas turbines with MWs rating are Mechanical Drive only and the CO2 emission intensity is stated per kWh shaft. CO 2 emission intensity for all other gas turbines is stated per kWh electricity net with exception for Combined Heat and Power, which is stated per kWh electricity and heat. The CO 2 taxes are based on the web page of International Carbon Action Parntership (data in USD from 30th of June 2022). Carbon pricing projections for advanced economies (IEA SDS 2030, IEA SDS 2040) are based on IEA's Sustainable Development Scenarios. Exchange rates comes from exchangerate.host . The numbers presented are only for general information purposes and do not intend to provide legal, tax or accounting advice. For an exact calculation the boundary conditions for the specific site has to be considered.  Expected capabilities or benefits may not apply or be realized in all cases.  Information used to calculate results is subject to change without notice. Nothing on this site, including the results, shall be deemed or construed to be a warranty or guarantee of the information, product(s) or component(s) described herein. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025