Siemens Energy Electronic Supplier Integration (ESI+) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Electronic Supplier Integration (ESI+) Siemens Energy is executing the Vision 2020. A major focus of this strategy is digitalization, across all parts of our business. The digitalization of the Purchase-to-Pay (P2P) process has the potential to create value for all parties involved. As a result, the Electronic Supplier Integration (ESI+) portfolio of solutions has been introduced to digitize the Supply Chain from purchase orders to invoice. The future is digital and the future of P2P at Siemens Energy is Electronic Supplier Integration (ESI+). What is it about? Why get onboard? Providers Making the change together Going digital! Digitalization is fundamentally transforming the value chain and offers major opportunities for all parties Automated order processing. Speed. End-to-end visibility. Manual errors removed. Quality improved. Efficiency. Digitalization is not just a project – for us, it has become part of our strategy. Within the coming months, we will focus on Electronic Supplier Integration (ESI+) to raise the number of connected suppliers to significantly increase the number of digital transactions. We are aware that this step may also require changes on your side. We ask you to join forces to capture the potentials for both our companies. Let’s unlock the value of digitalization in your order-to-cash and our purchase-to-pay process from beginning to end! Implementing this initiative will help both our companies to strengthen our business processes in efficiency and performance. The future is digital – please join us on this path! Letter of Barbara Buttinger, Senior Vice President of Strategic Procurement, Siemens Energy PDF (119 KB) Download The future is now! We live in a world of constant change, the only way to manage that change is for business partners to be connected. That way changes are managed together, with transparency on both sides. Our supplier chains are becoming increasingly global, with multiple ways of communication becoming increasingly complex. Today we and many of our business partners are faced with some level of highly manual and error-prone processes. Tomorrow business partners will be connected, sharing data electronically, automatically with minimal efforts, sharing in the benefits. We believe that if we can work together to make digitalization a success, we can share the following benefits. Efficiency Levarage Control Classic EDI - SupplyOn The ESI+ portfolio provides an option for each type of business partner, irrespective of your location, size or technical capability. You can experience the ease of use, the reliability and agility of Electronic Supplier Integration. Together we will succeed! We are by your side, from the very start, step by step throughout your daily business. Below is a summarized view of how we can start the change together. Download our ESI+ OnePager Frequently Asked Questions Get your questions answered Supplier not registered Supplier registered I need more information regarding the platform. In case you were asked to register on the SupplyOn platform, click here to find more information about the platform. If you are having troubles with the registration, you can watch a tutorial here . For more video tutorials, you can visit this link . If you did not find answers to all of your questions, please contact esi.se@siemens.com (for questions regarding onboarding) or esi_support.gbs@siemens.com (for all general questions). Which Siemens locations will be using my connection with them? More Siemens locations can use your connection, but it is very individual which of them will. The best to find out is to ask the Onboarding team at esi.se@siemens.com or your Siemens contact. Which Siemens location requested my onboarding? To find out the Siemens location/business, which requested your onboarding, please contact esi.se@siemens.com . I want to change my contact data (e-mail, address, …) For SupplyOn: If your registration has not started yet, contact esi.se@siemens.com to change your contact information. If you want to change any data during or after your registration, you can do this directly in the SupplyOn platform. What will change for me if I register? You will be able to enjoy a whole lot of benefits, for example faster payments from the Siemens side, less clarifications needed on both sides, less errors being made, easy management of the platform and many more. I have not received the link for registration as I was supposed to. What should I do? Contact esi.se@siemens.com for the link to be re-sent to you. I want to use Classic/direct EDI with Siemens. Is it possible? These two types of connection need to be discussed individually for each supplier. In case you are interested in one of these solutions, please contact esi.se@siemens.com . Something in the portal is not working as it should. What do I do? Contact the onboarding team at esi.se@siemens.com or the platform directly. You can find the contacts on the tab “Support”. How do I know there is a new message in the platform? Do I get a notification? In case you are registered in the SupplyOn platform, you need to set up your alerts to be receiving notifications. You can also choose for which message types you want to receive notifications and which persons from your company should receive these notifications. I am registered in SupplyOn and need to change the company administrator? To do this, you need to contact SupplyOn directly at customer-support@supplyon.com . I am registered in SupplyOn but I do not see any orders from Siemens, why? First, make sure that you have set up the user roles for you and your colleagues correctly – follow video tutorial here . In case the problem would persist, contact the Onboarding team at esi.se@siemens.com . Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025