Siemens Energy and Novatek to collaborate on more sustainable LNG production Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy and Novatek to collaborate on more sustainable LNG production Press release December 10, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy will provide innovative high-technology solutions to Novatek with the overall goal of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by using hydrogen and increasing energy efficiency in LNG production Strategies to be evaluated include integrating low-carbon power generation, optimizing LNG production, and producing blue and green hydrogen Siemens Energy has partnered with Russia-based natural gas producer, Novatek, to implement technologies and concepts to reduce emissions from existing and prospective power plants for LNG facilities and improve environmental and process efficiencies in LNG liquefaction trains. The agreement defines the framework and targets for joint activities and projects to support Novatek’s decarbonization objectives and goal to become the world’s leading supplier of clean LNG. Novatek intends to benefit from Siemens Energy’s extensive technology portfolio and expertise in sustainable energy solutions to lower GHG emissions and enhance the overall sustainability of LNG production. The parties intend to cooperate, in particular, on projects to increase energy efficiency and the application of digital technologies, the use of hydrogen and other carbon-neutral fuels for energy generation, the production of "green" and "blue" hydrogen, as well as in solutions for carbon capture, utilization and storage. The partnership builds on the two parties’ longstanding business relationship and history of collaborating on world-class LNG developments, including the Yamal and Arctic LNG2 projects – both of which are located in the Yamal-Nenets Region in Northern Russia. In 2015, Siemens Energy supplied four boil-off gas (BOG) compressors and eight SGT-800 units with one core engine to the Yamal project, along with 29 of the largest and heaviest modular e-houses ever constructed. For ArcticLNG2, Siemens Energy is providing six BOG compressors and three feed gas booster compressors. Christian Bruch, CEO of Siemens Energy: “With our extensive portfolio, from fossil fuels to renewables, we are uniquely positioned to support the LNG sector drive toward a more sustainable future,” said Christian Bruch, CEO Siemens Energy. “The oil and gas industry faces the challenge of reducing its carbon footprint and meet the world’s growing demand for power in the most environmentally responsible manner. We are pleased by the trust of Novatek to address those challenges in close collaboration.” Links More about LNG solutions from Siemens Energy Contact Janet Ofano Siemens Energy 5101 Westinghouse Boulevard 28273-9640 Charlotte, NC USA janet.ofano@siemens.com +1 803-389-6753 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (94 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020.</p><p><a href="http://www.siemens-energy.com/" target="_blank">www.siemens-energy.com</a>.</p> Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025