Field Service for Power Plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications There wherever you need us Innovative Field Service Solutions for all types of power plants. Register to Customer Portal Qualified, committed, onsite competence close at hand With over 2,000 highly trained and experienced experts located in strategic hubs around the world, Siemens Energy Field Service provides qualified and committed onsite competence for all types of fossil power plants. Whether for gas turbines, steam turbines and generators, for new or existing conventional power islands, we offer innovative field service solutions that can be tailored to your individual need to help secure high levels of availability, flexibility and reliability. Siemens Energy Field Service is responsive and delivers reliable onsite support that can build strong long-term partnerships and help safeguard your assets over the lifetime of the plant – with exceptional Service Performance, Service Innovation and Service Excellence. Advantages of using Siemens Energy Field Service include: Outage support with a team of engineers dedicated to and trained in human performance techniques, safety leadership, and pride themselves in having an impressive safety record for field service and shop activity A thoroughly trained support team with the mission to provide the fastest, most efficient response time in the business Access to the extensive global network of Siemens Energy experts in service-design engineering Comprehensive outage contingency planning and project management utilizing the Total Maintenance Service (TMS) process State-of-the-art tooling technology and equipment for specialized service requirements A limited warranty to give you peace of mind Qualified in helping you safeguard your assets With our strategically positioned branches in many countries of the world, we are always close at hand, so that we can implement project and customer- specific field service solutions at any time. Power plant performance can invariably be influenced by the quality of field service performance. Siemens Energy Field Service is well qualified in helping maintain the assets of plant owners and operators – not only with the skills and competence of our staff but also the willingness to learn and to improve every day. Our people make the difference with their extensive knowledge and 24/7 support from a global network of engineers. Safety, it’s a mindset. You will see this in action as we utilize industry-leading Human Performance techniques and specially-designed tooling. Quality workmanship is a result of our focus on operational excellence. We strive to provide you peace of mind that the job will be done right. We understand Schedule adherence is important to you. That is why we offer up front Total Maintenance Service (TMS) planning and a rapid response network of resources, tooling and parts. Our Performance-minded approach provides you scope, budget, planning and implementation support through our District Service Offices worldwide. Committed to keeping you competitive A customer-centered field service focuses on service solutions that provide excellent added value to businesses and should be reflected in a long-term, close and trustful relationship. Securing availability, flexibility and profitability of power plants is an ongoing process and specific to each facility. It can require new service products to appropriate address ever-changing plant and market requirements. Siemens Energy Field Service offers a variety of innovative service packages and solutions to accommodate individual and specific support needs. Remote Outage Services, part of Omnivise Remote Support Suite If your power plant is in a remote area, Siemens Energy can offer an innovative digital solution that enables you to service your units for power generation fully digitalized without Siemens Energy experts onsite. Field service experts guide and advise special trained local technicians via satellite communications to execute field service tasks. Video real time collaboration and site observation are provided as services to drive digitalization of field service. Onsite machining Lengthy repair times can be reduced and new/repaired component shipping delays eliminated with our onsite machining services. With the help of innovative portable equipment from Siemens Energy, our Field Service experts can perform many required machining repairs directly at your site. Non-destructive examination For quick, accurate inspections of all stationary and rotating turbine and generator components, our Field Service specialists use advanced non-destructive examination tools. Many potential issues, such as crack growth mechanisms, can be identified and dealt with before they lead to failures. Fact finding and reporting Our highly skilled Field Service staff can also provide onsite assistance in detecting and investigating operational issues following a system outage, maintenance work or overhaul. Remote system monitoring, part of the Omnivise Remote Support suite Our remote online Siemens Energy Power Diagnostics™ Services allow us to monitor aspects of your gas and steam turbine performance from several centers worldwide. Using installed monitoring systems, we can conduct data analyses, investigate system flags and rapidly communicate findings to plant personnel. Welding and Coating Technologies Siemens Energy welding & coating technology is the expert for onsite welding, refurbishment and repair tasks. Several additive methods next to traditional welding tasks are available for onsite job execution including robotic controlled welding, thermal and cold spray techniques. These technologies offers significant advantages in terms of cost efficiency, short lead times, performance optimization with corresponding material properties. Advanced Tool Services Siemens Energy offers a variety of the smartest and most innovative tools for any onsite task. With our global network of tooling locations, we provide our services fast and reliable. Our R&D experts continuously develop new tools and devices fostering time reductions and cost savings on site. Onsite assistance beyond the norm With our strategically positioned branches in many countries of the world, we are always close at hand, so that we can implement project and customer- specific field service solutions at any time. In the event of an unforeseen repair or outage, there is nothing more comforting than knowing that rapid, reliable and qualified onsite assistance is just a phone call away. Our Field Service support sees individual plant site operability in a larger context – and looks ahead with proactive tools. That’s Field Service Excellence from Siemens Energy. Highly qualified staff In terms of training and experience, Siemens Energy Field Service engineers and technicians rank among the most qualified and capable power plant specialists in the industry. Their unique expertise is reflected in the high-quality workmanship they deliver to our customers. Repair practically anywhere With a network of strategically located workshops spanning the globe, our experts can quickly respond to repair requests almost anywhere. These service concepts are continuously updated with fleet experience input to improve our onsite support performance. Our onsite machining services are practically a factory in the field. Priority one: Zero Harm All Siemens Energy Field Service tasks and activities are performed to the highest environmental, health and safety standards. Safeguarding employees and the environment at all times is an integral part of the Siemens Energy Zero Harm culture. Tailored training courses Our staff of highly qualified and experienced instructors provides on-site trainings for system users, operators, engineers as well as maintenance personnel. Training content and structure can be tailored for individual needs. Total Maintenance Service Assistance for optimized outage planning is provided by our Total Maintenance Service concepts. Our Field Service experts work very closely with onsite staff in defining the project scope and operational assessments for implementing plant upgrades and product modifications. “Lessons learned” are used for continuous performance optimization. Successful partnership to provide the best-in-class service solutions. Siemens Energy Field Service team performed outage services at one of the fastest rates in the industry with exceptional quality of work. Modernizing the turbine components allows them to run for longer service intervals. This will help the customer stay competitive in tough power markets environment, and provide their operations at the plant more flexibility, availability, and reliability: Modernized turbine parts through our industry leading OEM repair technologies. Improved turbine component intervals allowing for longer unit durations and extend maintenance intervals. Global Resources with local expertise Siemens Energy value proposition drives us to be the highest quality source of solutions. In today’s power generation industry, it is critical for power plant owners around the globe to maximize the safety, reliability and profitability of their units. That’s precisely why Siemens Energy is committed to providing quality services designed to meet your critical needs. With a backing of 16 global manufacturing facilities, a worldwide team of more than 31,000 personnel and 200-plus offices in nearly 80 countries, Siemens Energy is committed to offer the latest technology, at the highest levels of service maintenance without sacrificing quality. Highest quality of products and services ISO 9001 certified Dedicated in-house quality program Examples of successful projects and more Watch videos about our international reference projects or technology benchmarks: World’s first use of a robot to help replace SGT5-8000H gas turbine burners Extension of gas turbine’s service life Reduced involvement of personnel increased the safety of the burner exchange work Simplified reassembly of burners since robot saved disassembly movement; Can lead to reduction of outage time Siemens Energy On-Site Machining Responsive, excellent, innovative field service solutions to help minimize downtimes Premium quality machining of complex rotor geometries Restoration of the original contours of inflows, bearings, blade grooves, and other features. Siemens Energy On-Site Machining Video Siemens Energy Non-Destructive Testing Services Independent inspection evaluation and implementation of State of the art testing techniques Highly qualified inspection personnel Reliable input for engineering recommendations and advanced qualification methods for innovative solutions Onsite Repair Service Siemens Energy Welding & Coating Technologies Certified welding services acc. ISO 9000 / 9001, ISO 3834-2 / AD 2000 / DIN EN 1090 Personnel qualification acc. ISO 14731, ISO 9606 / EN 287, ISO 14732 Process qualification WPQR ISO 15614 Wide variance of materials and metallurgical options can be applied onsite Dimensional restoration / conductivity increase / erosion protection Applicable to several components within the power plant Reduces outage risks caused by unexpected findings Minimizes the investment of long lead time spare parts Maintenance Costs Reduction Safety Improvement Component Life Optimization Unit Life Optimization Onsite Repair Service Siemens Energy Advanced Tool Services Wide range of Tools We offer a broad supply of instruments, tools and consumables to be well and reliably equipped for every kind of work and service types. Global network With our extensive network with 30+ tooling locations we can meet our customers needs wherever they need us. We offer all our services globally. Tailored service packages Every customer has different needs. We offer customized packages and services for you. Onsite Repair Service Sign in For owners/operators we offer further information on your equipment. Please register to the Siemens Energy Power Generation Services Customer Portal, part of the Omnivise Connect & Explore suite. Register Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025