Siemens Energy to help reduce emissions at NLNG plant Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to help reduce emissions at NLNG plant Press release September 23, 2020 Munich BOG compressor train will help reduce plant emissions Siemens Energy’s role in the Bonny Island plant dates back over two decades when the plant was first commissioned Nigeria LNG (NLNG) selected Siemens Energy to provide a cryogenic boil-off gas (BOG) compression train for its Bonny Island plant. The solution will play a key role in providing additional BOG handling capability and spares for the existing system. The new BOG compression train will be driven by a high-efficiency electric motor and includes two Siemens Energy centrifugal compressors. Located in Finima, Nigeria, the Bonny Island plant has been in operation since 1999. Siemens’ partnership with NLNG and the Bonny Island project can be traced back over two decades when the plant was first commissioned. “With more than 20 years of safe and reliable production, the NLNG Bonny Island plant is a staple facility in the global LNG industry,” said Arja Talakar, Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy. “NLNG’s selection of our cryogenic BOG compression technology is a testament not only to the reliability and performance of our existing equipment at the plant but also to our focused service and ability to meet local content requirements through our in-country presence. The new BOG compression train will contribute to NLNG’s goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a highly sustainable manner.” The order further establishes Siemens Energy’s leading role in LNG boil-off gas compression. The company has a fleet of cryogenic BOG compressors that have accumulated more than 4.2 million hours in service. “Because of current restrictions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, all discussions between Siemens Energy and NLNG were conducted remotely via virtual meetings,” said Matthew Russell, Head of LNG Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy. “In the end, proactive planning, perseverance, and the long-standing relationship between the companies facilitated seamless communication and smooth negotiations virtually.” Manufacturing, testing, and packaging of the compression train will take place in Duisburg, Germany, with a Free on Board delivery slated for Q4 of 2021. Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025