Medium-voltage arresters for distribution networks Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Medium-voltage arresters for distribution networks Our surge arresters for medium-voltage applications offer reliable overvoltage protection for medium-voltage distribution networks and components for applications up to 72.5 kV. Contact our experts Overview of our medium-voltage arresters for distribution networks We offer a wide range of product families for all types of requirements. It is important to choose the surge arrester based on the application and equipment to be protected: Surge arresters for distribution networks Siemens Energy 3EK distribution class surge arresters are ideally suited for the reliable protection of transformers, circuit breakers, medium-voltage switchgear and distribution lines. Surge arresters with high energy absorption capabilities In addition to typical distribution class surge arresters, Siemens Energy offers the 3EJ surge arrester product family with higher energy absorption capabilities in combination with a low protection level. The 3EJ medium-voltage surge arresters protect generators, motors, arc furnaces, dry-type transformers, airfield lighting systems, cable sheathing and converters for drives from overvoltage. Plug-in surge arresters The 3EH4 medium-voltage plug-in arresters optimally protect your transformers and switchgear against switching overvoltages and lightning. Special applications Siemens Energy offers the 3EQ0 product series for applications that require a surge arrester with a silicone rubber housing and directional pressure relief. Siemens Energy also offers the 3EP-G porcelain housed surge arresters with short-circuit current capability up to 300 kA for the overvoltage protection of generators and motors. Our product families Surge arresters for distribution networks 3EK8 silicone surge arresters with wrap design Siemens Energy 3EK8 silicone rubber surge arresters with wrap design effectively protect medium-voltage distribution networks from overvoltage. Siemens Energy 3EK8 wrap design surge arresters are ideally suited to provide reliable protection for: Transformers Circuit breakers Medium-voltage switchgear Medium-voltage distribution networks The silicone rubber housing is directly molded onto the metal oxide (MO) blocks. This creates a reliable seal that prevents moisture ingress and partial discharges. In the extremely rare event of an overload, arcing cannot result in a buildup of critical internal pressure, since the MO resistors are not enclosed in a sealed rigid mechanical shell. The arc can escape directly through the fiberglass wrap and the soft silicone housing without damaging the mechanical structure. No internal parts are ejected in the process. High-temperature vulcanized (HTV) silicone rubber is highly hydrophobic. This keeps any conductive moisture from forming on the surface, and dirt deposits are rendered harmless as a result of the hydrophobic transfer. Silicone is highly fire-retardant and self-extinguishing in the event of fire. These properties ensure the reliable, maintenance-free operation of 3EK8 surge arresters. 3EK8 surge arresters can be delivered with the same accessories like 3EK7 surge arresters. 3EK7 silicone rubber surge arresters with Cage Design™ Siemens Energy 3EJ silicone surge arresters with cage design are ideally suited for reliable protection against overvoltages in medium-voltage distribution networks. Siemens Energy 3EJ cage design surge arresters are ideally suited to provide reliable protection for: Generators Motors Arc furnaces Dry-type transformers Airfield lighting systems Cable sheathing Capacitors and capacitor banks Converters for drives Surge arresters with high energy absorption capabilities Siemens Energy 3EJ silicone rubber surge arresters with Cage Design™ Siemens Energy 3EJ silicone surge arresters with cage design are ideally suited for reliable protection against overvoltages in medium-voltage distribution networks. Siemens Energy 3EJ cage design surge arresters are ideally suited to provide reliable protection for: Generators Motors Arc furnaces Dry-type transformers Airfield lighting systems Cable sheathing Capacitors and capacitor banks Converters for drives The cage, made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) rods, provides a rigid, reinforced structure ensuring high mechanical strength. The silicone rubber housing is directly molded onto the metal oxide (MO) blocks and the surrounding cage made of FRP rods. This creates a reliable seal that prevents moisture ingress and partial discharges. The MO resistors are not surrounded by a rigid mechanical coating, which is why no critical increases in pressure can occur in the surge arrester in the extremely rare event of an overload. The arc can escape directly through the soft silicone housing without damaging the mechanical structure. No internal parts are ejected in the process. The innovative Siemens cage design is very secure. The silicone rubber is highly hydrophobic. This keeps any conductive moisture from forming on the surface, and dirt deposits are rendered harmless as a result of the hydrophobic transfer. Silicone is highly fire-retardant and self-extinguishing in the event of fire.  These properties ensure the reliable, maintenance-free operation of 3EJ surge arresters. Siemens Energy offers five product types for applications with high energy absorption capacities that vary in terms of the protection level: 3EJ2 – for rated voltages up to 54 kV, medium energy absorption capability 3EJ3 – for rated voltages up to 54 kV, high energy absorption capability 3EJ4 – for rated voltages up to 54 kV, very high energy absorption capability 3EJ0 – for rated voltages up to 15 kV, very low protection level, for protection against overvoltages 3EJ9 – for rated voltages up to 15 kV, very low residual voltage, for protection against overvoltages The proven type 3EJ4 surge arrester is also available for indoor use. The 3EJ4 surge arrester for indoor use is a cage design surge arrester that offers the same features as the version for outdoor use. The 3EJ0 and 3EJ9 surge arresters are optimized with an extremely low protection level for protection against overvoltages. The type 3EJ0 is used in cable networks with up to 15 kV. Type 3EJ9 surge arresters should be used for power plants and extensive cable networks. These have a higher energy absorption capacity and a better protection level. Plug-in surge arresters Siemens Energy 3EH4 plug-in surge arresters The 3EH4 medium-voltage plug-in surge arrester optimally protects your transformers and switchgear against overvoltages and lightning. Thanks to the alignment of the arrester's protection performance with the impulse withstand voltage of encapsulated switchgear and transformers, overvoltages generated by the reflection of traveling waves and switching operations are also limited. Rugged design for high power and a long life The plug-and-socket connection is available in connector sizes 2 and 3 and is dimensioned to EN 50180 / EN50181 for the inner cone system. The 3EH4 medium-voltage surge arrester corresponds to arrester class DH and is suitable for operating voltages up to 52.5 kV. Low residual voltages guarantee superior insulation coordination and protection. Special applications 3EQ0 surge arresters with silicone housing, composite hollow core design We offer the 3EQ0 for rated voltages of up to 45 kV for applications in which a surge arrester in silicone housing is required in combination with directional pressure relief. The surge arrester with the composite hollow core design uses silicone and fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) as housing materials. The direct molding of the silicone onto the FRP hollow core ensures reliability, while an excellent special sealing of the flanges at both ends of the surge arrester effectively prevents partial discharges and moisture ingress. This guarantees decades of trouble-free operation. The combination of silicone rubber and the fiberglass-reinforced hollow core also allows for outstanding mechanical stability. The surge arrester with the composite hollow core design provides a very high degree of safety: In the event of an overload or the extremely rare case of an arrester short circuit, the arc escapes directly through directional pressure relief devices. The surge arrester can be oriented to minimize the risk of damage to facilities and injuries to people nearby. Internal parts are not ejected, and the housing does not break. Siemens Energy 3EQ surge arresters with silicone housing and a composite hollow core design are ideally suited for the reliable protection of: Generators Motors Arc furnaces Dry-type transformers Airfield lighting systems Cable sheathing Capacitors and capacitor banks Converters for drives 3EP-G porcelain surge arresters In addition to providing maximum protection against overvoltages, Siemens Energy 3EP porcelain surge arresters feature a specially developed directional pressure relief system. In the event of an overload, the arc can escape directly through the directional pressure relief device. Strong, high-quality porcelain prevents pressure from building inside and internal parts from being rejected. This reduces, even minimizes the risk of damage to facilities or injuries to people in nearby. Siemens Energy offers the 3EP-G porcelain surge arrester, which has a short circuit current of up to 300 kA. It is ideal for overvoltage protection for generators and motors that require a very high short circuit current. The excellent sealing system on the 3EP-G surge arrester effectively prevents moisture ingress and partial discharges, guaranteeing decades of trouble-free operation. The use of non-porous sulfur cement instead of corrosive Portland cement protects the metal oxide blocks and prevents the effects of aging. The metal oxide blocks in the 3EP-G surge arrester are enclosed in a rigid, reinforced structure made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) rods. Siemens Energy type 3EP-G porcelain surge arresters are ideally suited for the reliable protection of: Generators Motors Arc furnaces Dry-type transformers Airfield lighting systems Cable sheathing Capacitors and capacitor banks Converters for drives Downloadable resources for you Medium-voltage surge arresters PDF (6 MB) Get in contact with our experts Do you have any questions about our surge arresters? Contact us. We are pleased to offer you individual advice. Contact Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025