Engineering Career in the Energy Technology Sector Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications July 23, 2024 3 min read Engineering career in the energy technology sector by Izabela Krpan Career Energy transition Stories In the ever-changing world of energy technology, individuals like Mariusz Melkowski play a pivotal role in shaping the future of the energy industry. As an electrical engineer at Siemens Energy, Mariusz’s career path is a testament to our commitment to innovation, collaboration, and personal growth. Explore engineering jobs Mariusz joined Siemens Energy in 2023, driven by a desire for new challenges and fresh opportunities to learn and develop further in his engineering career. His decision was influenced by the prospect of working with cutting-edge technology at Siemens Energy, constantly pushing the boundaries of what is possible. “It was important to me to work for a company that actually owned their own technology”, Mariusz mentions while explaining the essence of his job as an electrical engineer. With a passion for innovation and a strong backround in engieering, he was eager to contribute to Siemens Energy's dynamic projects and advance his path in the energy industry. “ The technology is designed and developed by our company, which gives us the opportunity to continually improve, implement unique solutions and be a pioneer on the market. Mariusz Melkowski Electrical Engineer, Siemens Energy One of the most energizing aspects of working as an engineer in our company, as he describes, is the opportunity to contribute to the development of new technologies and improve energy efficiency. A typical workday involves swiftly finding solutions and addressing on-site challenges, which often lead to new enhancements that set the benchmark for future projects. This dynamic environment allows for on-the-spot creativity, bringing him joy in what he does. His efforts have a real-time impact, and his dedication to efficiency and quality improvement is visible in his day-to-day activities –something that makes him proud. At Siemens Energy you often meet team members who thrive in the fast-paced environment of the energy market and Mariusz is no different. He not only had the chance to collect international experience by working at various sites, but the dynamics of his engineering role also lie in the diversity of projects he is involved in. Upon joining the company, he was part of a large-scale commercial Power-to-X project and the world’s largest e-methanol production facility in Kassø, Denmark as electrical advisor during the electrical installation. When I asked him how he would describe his work to his friends, he used the analogy of playing at the "Champions League" level in football, pointing out the degree of expertise involved. “Very advanced technology is a huge advantage,” Mariusz explains to me. Navigating engineering career with an open mind While working on future-oriented technologies was exciting, it also required a shift in mindset and stepping out of the comfort zone. Mariusz is not new to this approach and emphasizes: “The most important thing is to be open-minded.” His current project, situated in Spain, called BorWin5, involves the construction of an HVDC offshore platform to transmit electrical energy from an offshore wind farm using extra-high voltage direct current transmission technology to the shores of Germany. Both projects have placed him in the heart of action, allowing him to actively contribute to energy transition and the development of more sustainable energy systems, making his first year in the company memorable and rewarding experience in his engineering career. Siemens Energy eletrical engineer enjoying the vibrant culture and landscapes of Spain during his free time On the other side, his first year also marked getting lost in the organizational charts of a global organization. Despite the complexities of being part of Siemens Energy he has found the work environment to be incredibly collaborative. No matter the project, the setting feels like known and familiar territory. The accessibility and engagement of the project teams, both onsite and in the office, and the supportive company culture that fosters growth and development impressed him during both of his projects. Even though the nature of his job can be demanding, he finds time for hobbies and personal development, often exploring the vibrant culture and landscapes of Spain, where he is currently located due to his project. He values the autonomy to identify his own development needs and the company's willingness to support his ideas and initiatives. “They understand that I'm going to know better what I need now on this part of my engineering career,” Mariusz says. I left our conversation excited to have had the chance to explore the story of yet another talent embracing the vibrant and diverse spirit of our Siemens Energy team . Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Read more August 4, 2022 4 min read One giant leap for e-Methanol July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition November 7, 2023 4 min read The future of hydrogen tech manufacturing See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025