Biomass Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Upcycle your biomass Biomass waste is a valuable fuel which can be efficiently utilized. An age-old fuel put to new use Providing a future-proof source of electricity and contributing to lower CO₂ emissions, power produced from biomass is increasingly economically viable. The interests of operators and investors, on the one hand, and those of utilities and grids, on the other, are becoming more closely aligned. This is because ensuring a stable power supply as well as the financial success of the power plant are common goals. Download brochure Siemens Energy to electrify first-of-its-kind biorefinery in Germany The biorefinery will be the first industrial-scale facility of its type ever built. It will apply novel process innovations to sustainably convert 100 percent wood into bio-based mono-ethylene glycol (MEG), mono-propylene glycol (MPG) as well as renewable functional fillers (RFF). Read more Centered on biomass – an integral part of the industry Biomass is green power With more widespread environmental awareness and the resultant striving for “green” lifestyles, biomass energy for both industry and electricity providers is a reliable – and sustainable – source of baseload power. It also helps in meeting environmental targets, absorbing more CO₂ than it emits, and efficient equipment used in power generation leads to fewer emissions at the plant site. Biomass is a relatively cheap base load and, depending on the local regulations, surplus electricity produced from it can be fed back to the grid, making it even more economically viable. Closed-cycle economies Installing a biomass power plant to burn the on-site waste that occurs as a by-product of industrial processes closes the factory input cycle. It also eliminates the need for waste disposal, lowers energy costs and maintains a high availability of the power supply. Incinerating renewables is thus a further step toward sustainability and toward a closed-cycle economy. These by-products need no additional processing, further strengthening the financial feasibility of the biomass plant. Favored by investors The possibility of running a biomass plant on diverse feedstocks adds to the viability of such projects while ensuring the availability of the fuel supply. Apart from achieving maximum output with a minimum of life-cycle costs, another decisive economic factor is the need for appropriate frameworks already in the country concerned, regulating such variables as electricity prices, the level of tipping tax, and funding. We support your interests Flexible, reliable operation With their leading efficiency profile and minimal outages, our turbines maximize the amount of electricity generated while further reducing a plant’s lifetime emissions footprint. Lowest lifecycle costs, reliable equipment All our turbines offer a long life cycle thanks to reliable equipment that is backed by our global service. Strong reputation and references Thanks to our long list of references we can help gain acceptance for biomass energy among the authorities and the local population. Professional project development We can support you from the very beginning with our technical consulting and expertise, dealing with all the parties involved and avoiding any complications. More information on biomass: Technical white papers Capturing the potential of Vietnam biomass energy growth with tailor made high-efficiency steam turbines Download white paper Industries producing a large amount of process (biomass) waste can convert it into carbon-neutral energy to power their facilities or sell into the grid for additional revenue. Download white paper Reheat solutions significantly increase the overall efficiency of a biomass plant and are therefore an optimal solution to produce more energy without having to use more fuel. Download white paper Co-generation with high-tech steam turbines and generators in sugar production. Download the white paper A holistic approach Partnering with an experienced equipment manufacturer is an important step toward commissioning a new biomass plant. Siemens Energy scope of supply: Our focus on both fuel costs and revenue See our solutions for biomass in action Hirohata, Japan In 2020 Siemens received an order from Nippon Steel Engineering Co., Ltd. for a steam turbine and related products. The equipment will be installed at a biomass power plant which Hirohata Biomass Power Generation Co., Ltd. drives to develop in Hirohata, Himeji city, Hyogo, Japan. Scope of supply: dual casing reheat steam turbine (75 MW), condenser, generator and turbine controls. The commercial operation of the project is planned for 2023. Metsä Äänekoski bioproduct mill, Finland Metsä Group’s Äänekoski bioproduct mill is utilizing raw wood material and production side streams to manufacture a wide range of bioproducts. Bioproduct mill produces 2.4 times as much electricity as it needs, with the excess electricity being fed into the grid. SST-800/500 steam turbine, automation solutions and digital analysis of production data triple capacity of the new mill. Kamisu, Japan Siemens Japan K.K. received orders from Toyo Engineering Corporation for a steam turbine and related  products for a biomass power plant in Japan. The steam turbine of 51.5 MW power output, turbine condenser, generator and turbine controls have been ordered. The equipments will be installed at Obayashi Kamisu biomass power plant in Kamisu city, Ibaraki prefecture, Japan. Read more Contact us for more information about our biomass solutions Siemens Energy Customer Support +49 911 6505 6505 (Charges depending on provider) +49 180 524 25 71 (Charges depending on provider; from the German fixed network € 0.14/min. and from the German mobile phone networks max. € 0.42/min.) Contact us Read more June 23, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy to electrify first-of-its-kind biorefinery in Germany April 16, 2025 Berlin Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG announces preliminary results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and raises its outlook for fiscal year 2025. March 26, 2025 Berlin Siemens Gamesa to divest a majority stake of its Indian wind business and enter into strategic partnership agreement with TPG and others February 28, 2025 Berlin Siemens Energy to supply Rolls-Royce with turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR) See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025