Process safety software Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Process safety software Supporting process industry’s digital transformation journey in advancing process design, safety, and asset integrity management Delivering value through process safety software From influencing process conceptual design, to managing risks, and selecting the right applications for your process safety infrastructure , we are the partner of choice in leveraging your investments towards a broader impact in operational excellence .  We enable our customers to maintain productivity, improve safety and drive for sustainability . Contact us Our process safety software solutions Oil and Gas Manager (OGM) Transitioning field development projects from early conceptual design through the construction phase demands agility, reliability, and predictability, calling for tools with efficient and accurate execution. Designed for both onshore and offshore developments, Oil and Gas Manager is the industry leading modeling, evaluation, planning and decision support conceptual design and cost estimation solution for global application in the oil and gas industry.  Driven by process simulation, its collaborative platform captures team knowledge across engineering disciplines and functional responsibilities, integrating named insights into the asset development process. Find out more Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager (PSPPM) Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager (PSPPM) is an enterprise-level process safety software application used by oil and gas, refining and chemical process industries for design, rating, and data management of flare and pressure relief systems in accordance with industry standards and best practices methodologies.  Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager utilizes a central data repository providing process safety engineers and managers access to flare and pressure relief systems data and analyses in a collaborative environment, ensuring visibility into the adequacy of flare and pressure relief systems and facilitating management of design bases changes throughout the plant life cycle. Find out more Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager (PSAIM) Utilizing two separate process safety software programs to manage critical equipment can be time consuming and ineffective for operating companies. Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager (PSAIM) is a comprehensive solution combining Risk-Based Inspection (RBI) and Integrity Operating Windows (IOW) with an Inspection Data Management System (IDMS) to effectively manage the inspection and reliability program of your process plant.  PSAIM is the industry leading process safety software for safety critical equipment, corrosion monitoring, fixed interval and risk-based inspection planning and scheduling, and remaining life calculations.  Implementing Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager creates an easier and quicker inspection and condition monitoring solution, bringing immediate and invaluable benefits to your process plant and organization. Find out more Training Keeping your workforce technically competitive in a rapidly evolving business landscape requires an organization focus on competency development.  Offering a range of training from best practices courses to process safety software training, our subject matter training will help keep your team current in respective areas of expertise in process safety software and ensuring productivity in our products.  From flare and pressure relief systems to inspection data management system and asset integrity management topics, there is a course designed for every personnel in your organization. More information about the existing trainings Insights and news about process safety software Learn more about industry digital transformation and latest product releases referring to process safety sofware Oil and Gas Manager 2.3 Oil and Gas Manager (OGM) 2.3 makes creating project conceptual design and cost estimates easier, faster, and more accurate for a variety of offshore and onshore oil and gas greenfield and brownfields projects including process decarbonization analysis. Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager 1.7 Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager (PSAIM) 1.7 brings many new capabilities to improve safe, efficient, and effective implementation of your inspection data management system and asset integrity management program.  New capabilities and enhancements in this release include all new Integrity Operating Windows (IOW) Module to establish safe operational limits and define actions for assets with unsafe operational excursions. In addition, Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager 1.7 expands the minimum thickness calculations methods to include BS EN 13445, 14015, and 13480 Design Codes. Find out more Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager 1.7 Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager (PSPPM) 1.7 continues to bring many new capabilities to improve the design, assess, model, and management of flare and pressure relief systems.  The latest release includes newly added web-based Custom Report Module that enhances user experiences in accessing of flare and pressure relief systems data and reports. Still have questions about our process safety software solutions? Maybe this helps Do you want to enter the current process safety software solutions customer energy portal (CEP)? The Siemens Energy process safety software support portal is LIVE! Access the portal to submit online support requests, manage open tickets, access product documentation, and more. Click here to login to the CEP Are you looking for our process safety software solutions general admission training? Process Safety Asset Integrity Manager general admission training Please visit out process safety training pager for more information about our trainings and the latest dates. Process safety training Are you interested in an evaluation license? Request your evaluation license here How can we support you in your business needs? Contact us For more information please get in touch with us. We are here for you. Click here to contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025