Power and heat generation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Low- and net-zero power and heat generation Making the most of our energy sources to support the energy transition Using energy resources efficiently for sustainable power and heat generation Global challenges like urbanization, scarce resources, and climate change fuel demand for efficient, low-/net-zero power generation and renewable energy.  That’s why energy systems are already undergoing a rapid transformation – and adapting to the high shares of renewables that will be essential for future energy systems. We’re helping our customers to successfully meet their challenges – from industrial companies and power utilities to energy investors and governments. Whether we’re talking about conventional or renewable energy: We develop energy concepts to deepen the knowledge and understanding of the energy landscape of countries and regions. We also formulate country-specific energy implementation roadmaps to enable their ecological, economic, and social development. “ Utilizing our advanced technology, solutions, services, and capabilities, we strive to set new benchmarks for decarbonization and the evolution of the energy system. Karim Amin Member of the Executive Board & Executive Vice President Gas Services, Siemens Energy Follow Karim Amin on LinkedIn The key to decarbonization: Innovative solutions for power and heat generation Products, solutions, and services for reliable, affordable, and sustainable power and heat generation The energy industry is experiencing numerous opportunities driven by factors such as the move towards decarbonized energy systems, on-site power generation, and cutting-edge digital service solutions. Gas turbines Steam turbines Generators Power plant solutions Distributed control system Wind power by Siemens Gamesa Small hydro power Heat pumps Energy services Carbon-free, distributed, digitized: Evolving power and heat generation Decarbonization activities occur step by step: We improve the efficiency of existing assets. The transition away from conventional fuels comes next – from coal to gas and then to hybrid systems and cleaner fuels. Learn how we’re pushing the boundaries of both conventional and renewable energy to meet the demand for sustainable, reliable, and affordable energy. Learn more Distributed generation is becoming more and more important in the new energy era. Do you want to integrate renewables? Bring reliable and affordable electricity to remote areas? Or achieve decarbonization goals using local energy generation and storage? Explore how on-site power generation secures your power supply for the future. Learn more Services and digitalization are critical for maximizing the lifecycle value of power and heat generation assets. Our services and digital service solutions help you extend the lifespan of your assets. Discover what Siemens Energy services can do for you – and how to implement competitive and innovative methods to reduce downtime and increase output. Learn more Hydrogen – Preparing gas turbines for the energy transition Free whitepaper There is an increasing need, and potential, for hydrogen to decarbonize power generation. In this comprehensive whitepaper, learn about how Siemens Energy is approaching this unprecedented opportunity, readying gas turbines for the energy transition. Download free whitepaper Latest press releases March 25, 2021 Berlin Vattenfall and Siemens Energy help advance a climate-friendly heating supply for Berlin with large-scale heat pump March 9, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy’s gas turbine technology to support cleaner, more efficient energy production on island of Cyprus February 23, 2021 Berlin Siemens Energy to supply F-class gas turbines to power China’s Greater Bay Area development November 19, 2020 Munich Gas turbines from Siemens Energy are providing Leipzig with a climate neutral power supply August 31, 2020 Munich Siemens Energy and Kineticor advance Canada’s decarbonization efforts See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025