Circuit breaker accessories Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Circuit breaker accessories We offer tools, sensors and additional devices that can assist you with the installation, maintenance and operation of your switchgear. Our devices allow you to monitor the contact wear, condition and function of your switchgear while protecting against switching overvoltages. Ask our experts Overview of our circuit breaker accessories Using accessories for Siemens Energy high-voltage circuit breakers can help reduce the life cycle costs of your substation and increase the service life of your equipment. All of these products have been developed and tested for Siemens Energy breakers. Controlled switching with PSD Function: The PSD control unit reduces overvoltages and protects electrical equipment. Energizing and re-energizing during an autoreclosing operation of shunt compensated transmission lines cause switching overvoltages on the transmission lines. The design is based on more than 15 years of experiences with controlled switching. This includes applications such as capacitor bank and reactor switching, energizing of transformers and uncompensated transmission lines up to 1100 kV. Features: Single and three-phase auto-reclosing Unrestricted parameter-definable software Standard close and open-trigger circuits Two switching procedures can be specified at the same time Compensation function for temperature & coil voltage influences Secure current measurement with “ring-type transducers” Station communication protocol , IEC 61850 / DNP3 Evaluation using graphical user interface Switching history can be transferred Cyclic history, alarms, measurement values For standard switching and controlled switching of transmission lines Controlled contacts with SICEA01 Function: The SiCEA01 contact erosion analyzer is used to determine the extent of wear to the circuit breaker contacts. The breaking currents of the circuit breaker are used to determine the contact wear. Switching operations with currents below the rated normal current are evaluated with the rated normal current. The contact burn off is calculated using the integral of the circuit breaker breaking currents. The result is compared with the configured reference values. If the result of this comparison exceeds the warning or alarm value, the corresponding signal contact is activated, and the signal light on the contact wear analysis device shows the status. With this warning or alarm, SiCEA01 shows whether the circuit breaker contact system has already been worn down to a specific level, which allows servicing work to be scheduled in good time. Features: Device for determination of contact wear 2 limits (warning and alarm), adjustable in % of the maximum permissible contact wear Digital relays and LEDs for warning and alarm Calculation of the integrated current during open operation for three poles Ambient temperature from -40 up to +85 °C Communication via Ethernet Input: 3 x analog input for signal of protection current transformers with external AC transformer 100A/100 mA; 3 x digital input reference contacts; auxiliary contacts Output: 3 relay outputs (warning, alarm, system OK); 3 LEDs Our services for you You can find details on our circuit breaker accessories and information about our services here. Downloads Support Product information: High-voltage circuit breakers brochure Sensgear flyer Further reading: Step by step towards grid digitalization We can gladly help you with installation, commissioning, diagnostics and malfunctions Switching Products Service Customer support center Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025