Future fit by moderniziation, the  BASF power plant Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications June 23, 2022 5 min read Making a power plant future fit - a tailor-made solution for BASF Reference Drive industry decarbonization As the site expands and develops, a BASF chemical park in Germany will have an increased energy demand. With a focus to become climate neutral until 2050. How can it grow more sustainably? More efficiency, lower emissions Today, the BASF site located in Schwarzheide, Germany, employs 3,500 people. The site is expected to grow and wants to enter new business fields, such as the production of battery material. The site will face an increased energy demand but is focused to become sustainable as it grows. If BASF is to achieve its goals to become climate neutral, a change in energy policy is vital. A combined-cycle power plant, built in 1994, supplies power, process steam and heat to the site. The modernization project is to be finished in 2022. Their modernized power plant will provide a power output of 110 MW and 200m³/h steam.It is now 10 percent more efficient and emits a more than 16 percent lower volume of greenhouse gases such as CO₂. “ Sustainability is an issue. Sustainability is a growth engine for us, a huge opportunity. Jürgen Fuchs Site Manager at BASF Schwarzheide, Germany Learn more about this great customer story Watch the video Creating chemistry for a sustainable future This is not just an end in itself, because BASF’s own customers, e.g. the automotive industry, signal a rapidly growing demand for eco-friendly products in their supply chain, too.  The site's CCPP power plant ensures a flexible energy supply and was now modernized as a brownfield project . While one power line ensured the uninterrupted power and heat supply of the site, the second power line was modernized. "An open heart surgery" as all project members describe the task. Learn more about our solution offered Scope of supply Flexible energy supply Jürgen Fuchs, head of the management board BASF Schwarzheide, and Julie DeKeyser, head of infrastructure, talk about the challenge of a sustainable growth. How can a chemical park expand its business and grow in a climate-neutral way in the same time? Modernization during full operation - an extremely demanding task Watch the video to learn more. Operating at the open heart In 2019, BASF Schwarzheide engaged Siemens Energy to carry out a "brownfield exchange project". From 2020 to 2022, parts of the existing combined cycle power plant were modernized without interrupting ongoing operations. One of the two gas turbine lines were refurbished while the second gas turbine ensured the site's power supply. Learn more Brownfield exchange The scope of supply Siemens Energy replaced one of the existing gas turbines with a SGT-800 , thereby raising this line's output from 45 MW to 52 MW . Combined with a modernized generator , the power plant runs with increased efficiency while incurring lower fuel costs per kilowatt-hour. A SIESTART battery energy storage system was installed during subsequent commissioning, enabling a black start of the power plant without having to rely on external power sources. Here too, BASF has decided to explore new avenues in a departure from the conventional solution with a diesel generator for the emergency power supply. The plant scheme is exemplary. Our answers for BASF's challenge Power plant upgrade: A brownfield exchange project + 10% Efficiency BEX Siemens Energy “Plug and Play” concept for replacement of existing gas turbines with brand-new Siemens units. A perfect match between old and new equipment to get a future proven design for at least 200 000 h. Uninterrupted production Existing interfaces are mandatory. All Siemens Energy solutions and components must be adapted to customer’s space limitations while the site runs under full production. All modernization measures follow strict time schedule. Learn more Energy storage Fossil-free black start capability Security of supply SISTART batteries for black start, independent from any grit. The battery system must have the power and capacity to provide three sequential black-starts of the newly installed SGT-800 gas turbine without recharging. Explore storage solutions Increased power supply: With a gas turbine SGT-800 Increased power supply A newbuilt SGT-800 gas turbine ensures the following performance: Power output (MW) 57.0 Gross efficiency (%) 40.1 Heat rate (kJ/kWh) 8970 Turbine speed (rpm) 6608 Pressure ratio 21.8:1 Exhaust mass flow (kg/s) 136.6 Exhaust temperature (°C) 565 NOx emissions 15 ppm (gas turbine only, while in the range of 60-100% load Industrial gas turbines - SGT-800 Modifications and Upgrades: The renewed generator (OEM) Reuse of resources Modernized generator, e.g. with revamped direction of rotation, optimizing the flow side inlet channels in the area of the rotor winding, adjusted dimensioning of individual components for higher currents and modified the base frame. Upgrade of generators Condition based Service: With a Long Time service contract (LTP) Long term partnership With a longtime service contract of 15 years for the gas turbine, we remain at the side of our customer BASF. Siemens Energy has been using digital tools for a long time to remotely analyze and maintain turbo sets. We recently added modern Argumented Reality technology to these tools and can use them to remotely guide your maintenance staff in isolating and correcting errors. In this way, even in times of limited travel opportunities, we bring our OEM know-how to your system and ensure its availability. Revamping a 30 years old generator - Listen to our experts “ "As an engineer, I couldn’t hope for a more exciting project" Eric Brückner Siemens Energy engineer Siemens Energy engineer Eric Brückner responsible for the generator modernization  shares some insights. Eric Brückner, Project Manager Generator, Siemens Energy Siemens Energy key account manager Bernd Künstler talks about his experiences during this project. Bernd Künstler, Key Account Manager - BASF Group, Siemens Energy Contact our experts “ “The cooperation was no less than excellent” Iain Anderson Project manager service operations, reflects the project execution What is special about the industrial gas turbine delivered to BASF? Supplied is a B5 model of the SGT800, which is best suitable for the customer requirements in this project, especially for the green approach BASF is looking for, both now and their future cooperation. With the additional active orifice solution and lower TiT (turbine inlet temperature), we were able to reduce the original customer emission requirements even further, which makes this a highly sustainable product for future development within the carbon footprint visions. How do you experience the project execution? This is a highly advanced and complex project as there are existing plant interfaces that need to fit and be adapted to the Brownfield exchange product being supplied. The Re-use of the existing generator is a prime example of these challenges as it is now placed on the mirrored side of the GT requiring major modifications of the generator i.e. rotation direction. Detailed information of the generator beforehand was limited due to its age, so a large risk management effort was in place to secure handling of potential findings during the efforts in the workshop. How did you experience the cooperation with BASF? The cooperation with BASF on all project matters has been no less than excellent! We have mutually created a highly efficient and transparent communication throughout the project progress and duly included each other to always secure we manage risks and issues together and find the win-wins in all possible cases. Decarbonization strategies for a lower CO₂ footprint Decarbonization does not happen over night, it takes time. Learn more about our holistic approach. Decarbonization technologies Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025