Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants March 12, 2025 Dammam Siemens Energy has been awarded a USD 1.6 billion project, with Harbin Electric International as the EPC contractor, to provide key technologies for the Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 gas-fired power plants in Saudi Arabia. Located in the western and central regions, the plants will add 3.6 gigawatts of power to the national grid – enough to supply around 1.5 million homes. The project includes long-term maintenance agreements to support the plants’ operational reliability over the next 25 years. Core components for the power plants will be manufactured at the Siemens Energy Dammam Hub, which is currently expanding to increase local production capacity and support Saudi Arabia’s energy sector. Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 will rank among the world’s largest combined-cycle power plants. They will replace aging oil-fired stations, reducing CO 2 emissions by up to 60% compared to traditional oil-based power generation. Additionally, the plants are being designed to be compatible with advanced CO 2 capture and storage technologies, supporting Saudi Arabia’s long-term emissions reduction goals. "Supplying key technologies for the Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 power plants directly supports Saudi Arabia’s energy transition and its goal of achieving net zero emissions by 2060," said Ahmed ElSerry, Head of Gas Services Sales, Middle East. ”By manufacturing critical components at our Siemens Energy Dammam Hub, this project further strengthens local production capabilities and builds expertise within the Kingdom, contributing to a more resilient energy sector,” he added. Siemens Energy will supply six SGT6-9000HL gas turbines, four SST6-5000 steam turbines, eight SGen6-3000W generators, two SGen6-2000P generators, and associated auxiliary equipment, with each site generating approximately 1.8 gigawatts of electricity. This order further strengthens Siemens Energy’s established presence in Saudi Arabia’s Independent Power Producer (IPP) market, solidifying its role in delivering a significant share of Saudi Arabia’s modern power generation. Building on the success of previous projects like Taiba 2 and Qassim 2 – which together add 4 gigawatts to the national grid – Siemens Energy continues to drive local manufacturing expansion and infrastructure modernization, playing a key role in the country’s energy sector. Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 will initially be integrated into the grid in simple cycle mode in 2027, transitioning to full operation as combined-cycle power plants by the following year. Contact for journalists Asma Alsharif Press Spokesperson asma.alsharif@siemens-energy.com +966 567635359 Contact for journalists Alina Mezentseva Press Spokesperson alina.mezentseva@siemens-energy.com +971 56 511 9312 Download press release Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants March 12, 2025 PDF (151 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks December 15, 2022 Berlin First tests for Power-to-Hydrogen-to-Power HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully completed See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025