Fixed series capacitor (FSC) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Fixed series capacitor (FSC) How to increase transmission system capacity and stability: The ongoing transformation of the energy system requires effective means to cope with growing challenges when it comes to reliable power transmission. Instead of building new lines to provide sufficient transmission capacity, it’s often better to use our flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) technology to increase the transmission capacity. Both newly built transmission lines and existing systems benefit from Siemens Energy’ FSC which is part of the series compensation (SC) solutions that also help to improve the quality and stability of power transmission lines. Arrange a consultation Boost your transmission lines Innovative series compensation technology provides higher transmission capacities for existing long-distance AC transmission lines and increased grid stability without the costs and time-requirement of building new lines. For decades, fixed series capacitor (FSC) technology from Siemens Energy has improved grid stability and contributed to the optimal utilization of transmission lines. Transmission system operators around the world have already benefited from solutions that were tailored to their specific requirements. Among the main benefits of FSC are the reduction of line voltage drops, limitation of load-dependent drops, and a reduction of the transmission angle. Have a closer look at the FSC: 3D Experience One solution, many benefits Increased maximum capacity Fixed series capacitor expands the transmission capacity of lines by compensating the impedance of the overhead line. It’s a cost-efficient way to achieve larger transmission capacities instead of building new lines. Increased grid stability With fixed series compensation, it’s possible to provide system stability for bulk power transmission and long transmission lines by reducing voltage drops at the point of connection. This increases overall grid stability. Economical solution The fixed series capacitors are the most cost-efficient solution. Their simple, proven and robust technology supports transmission system operators by optimizing power transmission and increasing transmission capacity. Siemens Energy is proud to reiterate: All major components are sourced in-house. Proven fixed series capacitor (FSC) technology for cost-effective capacity expansion The amount of power that can be transferred with long overhead transmission lines is limited by the impedance that can lead to voltage drops. For decades, fixed series compensation is the proven solution to maintain a minimum voltage profile and maximize utilization of transmission lines. It works by connecting a capacitor bank in series with the transmission line to partially compensate the inductive impedance of the line while also increasing the voltage at the point of connection. The capacitors are protected by metal-oxide varistors (MOV) and – in case of a fault – by tripping the FSC and closing the bypass breaker. For instant protection, a triggered spark gap bypasses capacitors and MOVs within less than 1 ms. Even gap-less solutions are possible, provided that local requirements match. Due to this complexity Siemens Energy recommends and offers individually designed solutions with fixed series capacitors. Additional information FSC flyer PDF (1 MB) Download Grid stabilization brochure PDF (23 MB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025