Field Service Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Field Service Performance You Can Count On! Siemens Energy Field Service provides qualified and committed onsite competence for all types of industrial plants, oil and gas equipment and fossil power plants. For decades, Siemens Energy Field Service has been successfully servicing plants of every type all over the world. Continually working to expand and improve the field service offerings and performance, Siemens Energy has become a first choice partner for many owners and operators – a reliable and proud partner. Benefit from the expertise and experience of an industry leader: Manufacturer and specialist knowledge based on over 165 years of experience, products and services from the OEM, Global presence – Local in more than 190 countries, expert knowledge and know-how through continuous qualification. Contact us Field Service for Power Plants With over 2,000 highly trained and experienced experts located in strategic hubs around the world, Siemens Energy Field Service provides qualified and committed onsite competence for all types of fossil power plants. Learn more Field Service for Industrial Applications Siemens Energy is a world leader in industrial turbines for power generation and mechanical drive applications. As part of the comprehensive portfolio of customer service activities, we provide a range of Field Services for all our turbine ranges. Learn more Get in touch Get in touch with us to find the perfect service. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025