CM500 Condition monitoring and VIB3000 turbine protection Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Condition monitoring and machinery protection Monitoring and protection for power generation Benefit from our condition monitoring solutions, machinery protection systems, and diagnostic services specifically designed for power generation. Our offerings include advanced hardware components and software tools for data analytics, all powered by reliable cutting-edge technology. Explore VIB3000 Maximize reliability with full redundancy at all levels Optimize performance with real-time condition monitoring Maintain efficiency with expert diagnostic services Introducing VIB3000: The standard for Siemens Energy turbines and pumps Phase out of Meggitt’s Vibro-meter VM600Mk1 machinery protection system The discontinuation of an obsolete machinery protection system poses challenges in servicing and repair, potentially risking plant operations. To prevent outages and production losses, we support you with our proven VIB3000 machinery protection system. With comprehensive monitoring, advanced cybersecurity, and support through our service contract, we ensure reliable and efficient machinery protection making it the standard for any new build and modernization project. With the current phase out of VM600 Mk1, Siemens Energy recommends to all their customers still running their plant with this machinery protection to upgrade to Siemens Energy’s VIB3000.  Contact us and keep your rotating equipment up to date! Contact us More information about VIB3000 Seamless integration: VIB3000 integrates 1:1 with existing plants, offering enhancements over previous standards. Control system compatibility: Fully integrates with Omnivise T3000, reducing hardware needs and facilitating diagnostics and remote access. Enhanced monitoring: Provides seamless operation and comprehensive monitoring for machinery and turbine protection. Maintenance and lifecycle management: Covered by Long-Term Program (LTP) or service contracts, simplifying maintenance and lifecycle management. Cybersecurity: Complies with IEC62443 security level 3, ensuring advanced cyber security. Manufacturer and service provider: Siemens Energy is the product manufacturer, integrator, and maintenance service provider. Flexible integration options: Omnivise T3000 integrates via PROFIBUS, PROFINET, or 1:1 hard-wired connections. Advanced diagnostics: Onboard diagnosis module in Omnivise T3000 offers additional functionalities. Start with us – discover our portfolio VIB3000 machinery protection CM500 condition monitoring Machinery diagnostic services VIB3000 machinery protection The machinery protection system VIB3000 supports individual redundancy philosophies by offering redundancy at all levels , sensor connections, signal processing, voting, and distributed control system (DCS) uplinks. The main objective of our VIB3000 machinery protection system is to fulfill safety and availability targets without compromise by protecting the machine and the environment from the consequences of machine failure. Depending on the desired solution, VIB3000’s firmware, PROFIBUS communication, output relays and output analogs can be SIL-1 certified. Another option is a non-SIL version with extended connectivity. The machinery protection system can be integrated into the Siemens Energy instrumentation and controls system (I&C system) and supports configuration from the plant DCS. PROFIBUS, MODBUS and PROFINET interfaces are available and can replace 0/4…20mA interfaces. The technology implemented into machinery protection also features digitalization throughout the system, “voting” within the system (on-board-voting) and short response time. Download whitepaper Our machinery protection: highest safety and availability of your plant assets Maximize Machinery Safety Plant operators need to cut costs and extend machinery life while ensuring safety. The Siemens Energy VIB3000 machinery protection system improves safety and availability with high channel density and flexible sensors, minimizing unexpected failures and simplifying spare parts management. Watch the video! CM500 condition monitoring Vibration monitoring and detection of abnormal machine behavior at the earliest possible point in time enables cost-effective maintenance-planning . Our CM500 condition monitoring (also known as Omnivise CM500) is the solution for condition monitoring and machinery analysis as well as machinery diagnostics of rotating equipment for your power plant. Technical description for CM500 Enhanced Omnivise CM500 monitors vibration levels in power plants to detect potential issues early on. By sensitive diagnostic condition monitoring, CM500 condition monitoring provides information on possible mechanical causes of abnormal behavior and anomalies (unbalance, bearing damage, incorrect alignment, cracks and loose parts). The solution includes all tools used for machinery analysis and diagnostics and thus for determining the causes of asset health issues - allowing proactive maintenance planning and preventing costly downtimes. Versatile CM500 is versatile and can be used with various types of rotating equipment and distributed control systems (DCS systems). CM500 condition monitoring offers vibration analysis for any kind of turbines (Siemens Energy or other manufacturers), any kind of fan (induced-draft, forced-draft), any kind of pump (feed water, condensate, cooling water), compressors, hydro-generators, gearboxes, electric motors, conveyor drives, synchronous condensers, etc. as well as for any kind of DCS (Siemens Energy or third-party). Three applications in one software package Condition monitoring is an effective approach for early detection of potential issues . By implementing this strategy, maintenance activities can be scheduled proactively, minimizing unplanned downtimes and reducing repair durations. As a result, asset availability is significantly enhanced. With our CM500 software package, you gain access to three key applications: online condition monitoring, root cause analysis, and real-time display , all powered by advanced technology. Machinery diagnostic services Services you can rely on We stand by our customers when it matters most, delivering peace of mind through reliable insights into asset health. Based on the vibration analysis our diagnostic services team combines in-depth analytics with years of domain expertise to provide you with most reliable information on the health condition of your assets. Regular status and event-based reports indicate what is happening when and where. Detailed reports with recommendations from our experienced diagnostic experts support you in planning corrective actions and thus cutting operating costs. Contact us Proven references When we say that we're close to our customers all over the world, we mean it. As a reliable partner, we're supporting industries worldwide in advancing their operations with condition monitoring and machinery protection in about 1,000 successfully executed projects . With more than 15 years of proven experience and a presence in 75 countries , our solutions make a difference and help our customers turn the challenges of the future into opportunities. Downloads Videos Websites References VIB3000 machinery protection VIB3000 machinery protection and diagnosis flyer Whitepaper for machinery protection CM500 condition monitoring Technical description for CM500 Machinery diagnostic services VIB3000 and CM500 service flyer Whitepaper for diagnostic services Diagnostic services flyer Video: VIB3000 machinery protection Video: CM500 vibration monitoring Omnivise Process Information (Omnivise PI) Instrumentation and Controls Monitors and Advisors (ICMA) Omnivise Digital Solutions English Reference Refinery Heide Reference Schluchseewerk AG Reference for synchronous condenser VIB3000 and CM500 for hydro power plants German Reference Refinery Heide | German Reference Schluchseewerk AG | German Reference VIB3000 at Mainova | German Learn more about our portfolio I&C Monitors and Advisors Learn more Omnivise PI Learn more Omnivise Digital Learn more Contact Have you become curious? Then contact us! With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Send an e-mail Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025