Electrostatic precipitators (Omnivise electrical solutions) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Electrostatic precipitators Advanced inverter technology for ESP power supply Electrostatic precipitators (ESP) collect dust in the flue gas produced by the boiler and other components. They support air pollution control at thermal power plants, and various industrial plants. A high voltage is applied to the discharge electrode, generating a corona discharge that produces negative ions. The electrically charged dust is accumulated on the collecting electrode by an electrical field. The accumulated dust is removed by rapping hammer (dry ESP), scraping brush (dry ESP), or flushing water (wet ESP). The most important consideration in ESP for coal-fired boiler applications is to maintain and increase the collection of high-resistivity dust. Siemens Energy offers suitable technologies for plant applications and operations and combines compact design and high efficiency. SIPREC solutions in detail SIPREC T W1C single phase thyristor – HV power supply for electrostatic precipitator The operating mode of the electrostatic precipitator ESP (wet/ dry) is governed by the raw gas and particulate (aerosol) conditions. As electrostatic precipitators are used in virtually all process industries, conditions specific to plant processes such as startup/ shutdown operation, load cycling as well as varying gas conditions due to changed fuels/ raw materials must be considered. Download PDF SIPREC ODS Electrostatic precipitator – operation, visualization, data archiving, optimization and diagnostic The SIPREC ODS application is based on Windows operating system and supports Siemens Energy high voltage power supply systems for electrostatic precipitators (ESPs). SIPREC ODS (SCADA) connects simultaneously to all high voltage power supply controllers for comfortable central operation, visualization and data archiving of measured operating values. SIPREC ODS enables optimization of ESP operation and diagnostics. Download PDF SIPREC C Thyristor controller upgrade – HV power supply for electrostatic precipitator SIPREC C is a thyristor controller upgrade set for the retrofit of existing thyristor controller of different brands. The existing control cubicle with all power components (fused disconnector/ circuit breaker, main contactor, SCR-thyristor stack, CT) and peripheral components (interface relays, terminals etc.) are all reused. Download PDF SIPREC I IGBT inverter – HV power supply for electrostatic precipitator SIPREC I technology representsd the 4th generation of Siemens inverter technology, specifically designed for the kind of high voltage power supply required by ESPs. For new ESP installations, we recommend installing the SIPREC I power supply system consisting of the SIPREC I control cubicle and the SIPREC TR500 T/R set for maximum performance. For retrofitting of existing ESPs, we also offer  the SIPREC I Hybrid IGBT control cubicle for the reuse of existing and suitable 50Hz/60Hz T/R sets. Download PDF Your benefits Maximum reliability thanks to robust design suitable for power plants Low maintenance costs due to use of proven industrial components Low investment and operating costs Effective reduction of particulate emissions and best energy savings through our optimization options Profibus communication protocol and own SIPREC ODS - Monitoring System. Get in touch We are looking forward to answering your questions concerning the modernization of ESP high voltage power supplies and controls, PLC / DCS signal and data exchange or other questions related to the ESP operation. Send an e-mail Related content Omnivise Electrical Solutions Read more Omnivise Digital Solutions Redefining energy – together Read more Read more 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025