Blueprint for commercial e-fuel production being built with Siemens Energy technology Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Blueprint for commercial e-fuel production being built with Siemens Energy technology Press release March 1, 2023 Berlin Danish energy company Ørsted is building Europe’s largest commercial production facility for carbon-neutral marine fuels in northeastern Sweden. At the heart of the FlagshipONE plant is a technology package from Siemens Energy comprising four proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzers with a total capacity of 70 megawatts, as well as the plant-wide electrification and automation systems, including innovative digitalization solutions (such as the use of digital twins), and the entire power distribution and compressor systems. The plant, which is being built in the Swedish coastal town of Örnsköldsvik, will be able to produce up to 50,000 metric tons of e-methanol per year from renewable energy and biogenic carbon dioxide from 2025. As a substitute for fossil fuels, this can avoid 100,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year in shipping. Anne-Laure de Chammard, Member of the Executive Board for Transformation of Industry at Siemens Energy, said: “Without hydrogen or alternative fuels such as e-methanol, there will be no energy transition. We need to ramp up these novel industries as quickly as possible, which in turn requires economically viable business models and private investment. Groundbreaking projects like this are important to finally move from talk to action." Anders Nordstrøm, COO of Ørsted P2X, said: “At Ørsted, we want to create a world that runs entirely on green energy, and we believe that partnerships will be key to accelerate and develop the power-to-x solutions needed for the hard-to-electrify sectors. Siemens Energy is already a partner of Ørsted in our various renewable energy businesses, and I’m pleased that we now extend this longstanding partnership to power-to-x as well.” Ørsted’s plant represents the start of commercial production of carbon neutral e-methanol in Europe, based on a unique approach. Instead of building bespoke plants at each location, FlagshipONE will act as a blueprint – a “copy-and-paste” model – that can be scaled and replicated at other locations, in Sweden and elsewhere. The standardization approach has been created by the Swedish company Liquid Wind AB, the original developer of FlagshipONE. Liquid Wind develops replicable facilities to produce e-fuel and has plans to develop at least ten facilities in Scandinavia by 2030. As a partner to Liquid Wind, Siemens Energy plays a significant part in developing and progressing this trailblazing concept and provides the framework for turning these e-fuel facilities into reality with its technology package. FlagshipONE uses renewable electricity to produce green hydrogen, using Siemens Energy electrolyzers. A further stage in the synthesis process brings in biogenic carbon dioxide from a nearby biomass-fired combined heat and power station. The resulting e-methanol is a CO2-neutral electrofuel that is easy to store and transport. The e-methanol from FlagshipONE will be used in state-of-the-art “dual-fuel” ship engines, either alone or as an admixture to conventional fuel, and contribute towards the decarbonization of international maritime transportation, which accounts for three percent of global carbon emissions. Green fuels are currently unavailable in sufficient volumes and the cost is significantly above fossil fuel. This is where FlagshipONE comes in. The plant provides a blueprint for modular e-methanol plants to ramp up the industry in a way that is both flexible and market-oriented, and to enable experience that can be fed into the ongoing improvement of existing and new plants using the digital-twin concept. The next plant, FlagshipTWO, is already being developed by Liquid Wind and will be able to supply 100,000 metric tons of e-methanol to the market using a 140-MW capacity electrolyzer. Contact Claudia Nehring Siemens Energy claudia.nehring@siemens-energy.com +49 162 1668424 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (170 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more November 8, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy and Air Liquide pave the way for the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy with new gigawatt factory for electrolyzers December 20, 2022 Berlin A lighthouse project at the southern tip of Chile: Production starts at the world’s first industrial-scale facility for carbon-neutral fuel March 2, 2022 Munich / Copenhagen Siemens Energy secures electrolyzer order from European Energy for world´s first large-scale eMethanol project September 10, 2021 Munich/Stuttgart Construction begins on world’s first integrated commercial plant for producing CO2-neutral fuel in Chile See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025