Generators Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications High efficiency generators - Electricity starts with us Optimal power production with 2- and 4-pole SGen series generators As a leading provider of power plant generators, we understand the critical need for high-performance equipment that delivers uninterrupted power. The SGen series exemplifies our commitment to industrial-grade quality and efficiency, making it an ideal choice for those seeking a heavy-duty generator for demanding environments. Our generators are the perfect solution wherever power has to be generated reliably and efficiently – whether in an industrial plant, a large gas or steam power plant or for the greed fed by renewables. Our generators cover a power range of over 25 MVA. In addition, we provide wind generators from 0.25 to 10 MW. Contact us Industrial generators Our SGen series generators are specifically optimized for industrial applications, offering a robust power range upt to 370 MVA . We understand the critical need for high-performance equipment that delivers uninterrupted power. For 2-pole applications over 25 MVA, our SGen-100A/SGen-1000A series is the optimal solution. Learn more about SGen-100A Learn more about SGen-1000A Large generators Our heavy-duty generators for power production are perfect for sizable operations requiring a large capacity generator. The SGen series generators are engineered to withstand the rigors of industrial use to commercial power generators and are built to deliver high voltage power solutions, ensuring that your operations run smoothly and efficiently. Learn more about SGen-2000P Learn more about SGen-3000W Decarbonization has three levers For us, decarbonization has three levers: fuel shift, process optimization in the industrial sector, and increase of efficiency. Our solutions can support to tackle these three levers. How? Watch the video to learn more about our impactful approach Discover which generators fit best for your application: Generator Maintenance and Repair Services Our expert team specializes in generator maintenance and repair, ensuring optimal performance and longevity for your equipment. By analyzing individual operations of the turboset and the maintenance history, we customize service concepts to suit your generator's specific needs. Trust us to keep your generator running smoothly and efficiently with our comprehensive maintenance and repair solutions. Learn more about modernizations and upgrades of your generator Wind generators Proven more than 40,000 times all around the world, our wind generators provide maximum energy yield and highest system availability. For all common wind turbine types up to 10 MW, on- and offshore. Learn more about the Siemens Gamesa Wind Business How generator solutions ensure grid stability The world's largest flywheel A radical new vision for grids fed with renewable energy sources makes it necessary to bring stability to the grid. The first step? A synchronous condenser with the world’s largest flywheel. Read our customer story here Synchronous generators Reliable operation, stability and fast transient response for synchronous generators and synchronous motors Read on Protection Protect your assets and secure stable operation of your plant Read on Generator with pressurized air cooling Our latest innovation, the SGen-2000P generator series, offers an innovative mix of verified design features in operating ranges typically reserved for hydrogen-cooled generators . The water-cooled stator and air pressurization system allow this series of generators to operate within an extended performance range and with maximum load-shift flexibility. Replacing hydrogen cooling with pressurized air significantly reduces plant complexity and operational costs. Read on Find out more about our generator offerings Brochures SGen-2000P Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download SGen-3000W Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download MICALASTIC Factsheet PDF (2 MB) Download Technical papers and press releases Technical papers References Siemens Energy generators are operating in more than 60 countries. Beni Suef / New Capital / Burullus, Egypt (2016 – 2018) Customer: Egyptian Electricity Holding Co. (EEHC) Power output: 3 x 4.8 GW (14.4 GW total) Efficiency: > 60 % net Scope: 12 x SCC5-8000H (2x1), each with 2 x SGT5-8000 gas turbines, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, 3 x SGen5-2000H generator, SPPA-T3000 I&C system, HRSG Fortuna Lausward, Düsseldorf, Germany (2016) Customer: Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG Power output: 603.8 MW(e), up to 300 MW(th) Apparent power: 1 x 608 MVA Frequency: 50 Hz Terminal voltage: 21 kV Efficiency: ~61.5% Scope: SCC5-8000H 1S with 1 x SGT5-8000H gas turbine, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, and 1 x SGen5-3000W generator Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025