Excitation systems (Omnivise electrical solutions) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Excitation systems Reliable operation, stability and fast transient response for synchronous generators and synchronous motors The excitation system plays a major role in ensuring the reliable continuous operation of synchronous generators, since it significantly influences the operational readiness and dynamics of the generator. Moreover, it controls the reactive power response of the synchronous machine. Innovative excitation systems, especially designed for power plants, assume center stage when maximum reliability is required. After years in operation, long-serving excitation equipment is often no longer up to the task. Components of the excitation system may have been discontinued, the frequency of outages becomes unacceptable and grid operators impose new demands on control dynamics. The right excitation system for every application No matter your footprint, power supply or generator output, Siemens Energy can offer the right excitation system for any application in any power plant. Static excitation systems (SES) employ the most advanced technology for synchronous generators and synchronous condensers, and are compatible with generators from any manufacturer. SES are suitable for low to high performance classes, from 1 to over 1200 MVA generator output, mainly in hydroelectric, gas, steam and nuclear power plants. These systems are characterized by absolute reliability and maximum efficiency. Compound excitation systems (CES) are excitation systems for synchronous generators and emergency diesel generators. They are suitable for lower and upper performance classes with a generator power of up to approximately 50 MVA in hydroelectric, gas, steam and nuclear plants (emergency diesel) and are characterized by maximum safety and absolute availability. CES are available as load dependent static and brushless versions. Automatic voltage regulators for brushless excitation systems (BES) are for generators with (brushless) exciters, and use cutting-edge technology. They are suitable for all performance classes from 1 to over 1000 MVA generator output in gas, hydroelectric and steam power plants and are characterized by absolute reliability and maximum efficiency. Our excitation solutions in detail THYRIPOL®-S & THYRIPOL®-6RV80 (static excitation systems) The static excitation system (SES) is a tried-and-tested solution for synchronous machines (generators, motors and synchronous condensers). SES can be used as a stand-alone system or as a compact system in combination with a start-up frequency converter. Our solution adapts perfectly to the conditions in both newly built or upgraded power plants, regardless of the space conditions, generator type, power supply or control system and regardless of whether the control system is also being replaced at the same time, as well as whether there is a hard-wired or bus connection. Open THYRIPOL®-S flyer THYRIPOL®-S | Front, open cabin THYRIPOL®-S | Front, left side, open cabin THYRIPOL®-S | Front, left side, closed cabin THYRIPOL®-6RV80 | Front, open cabin THYRIPOL®-6RV80 | Backside, open cabin THYRIPOL®-6RV80 | Front, right side, closed cabin THYRIPART®-S (compound excitation systems) The compound excitation system (CES) is a tried-and-tested solution for synchronous generators of any manufacturer and can be used both as a static excitation system for generators and for excitation of rotating excitation machines. Over 300 installations in operation have demonstrated the unconditional reliability and robustness for years. Our solution adapts to the conditions in each individual power plant regardless of the available footprint, which generator is used and which power supply and control system is available. Open flyer RG3-S (brushless excitation systems) The brushless excitation systems (BES) is a tried-and-tested solution for all generators with exciters. For many years now, more than 1700 brushless excitation systems have been demonstrating the highest levels of reliability and robustness. Our solution can be adapted to conditions in each individual power plant due to the high degree of flexibility of the supply concepts. Open flyer DIGUREG 2 (digital voltage regulator) DIGUREG is a compact voltage regulator , designed and tested in accordance with the relevant IEEE 421.5 standards and has an integrated power module. It is intended for synchronous machines with exciter sets and rotating diodes. DIGUREG is suitable for being used in steam turbine, gas turbine and hydroelectric power plants. Open flyer max. continuous current: 34 A max. continuous current: 16 A Your benefits Maximum reliability thanks to robust design suitable for power plants Low maintenance costs due to use of proven industrial components Minimum time for replacement of the existing excitation system with no changes to the I&C or the exciter Siemens Energy offers a turnkey excitation system solution To guarantee the best  solution for each individual case, we first analyze the current situation and the required modifications. We identify which components need replacing, which technology is most suitable, and how the new system can most easily be integrated into the existing plant architecture. Our primary goal is to achieve unconditional reliability and reduced maintenance costs for our customer's excitation system. For this, we offer excitation systems that fit perfectly into existing plants and processes. The Siemens Energy turnkey excitation system solution includes all necessary equipment, components and services. Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our products. If you have any questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Omnivise Electrical Solutions Read more Omnivise Digital Solutions Redefining energy – together Read more Read more 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025