Siemens hands over its 100th static synchronous compensator to Amprion Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens hands over its 100th static synchronous compensator to Amprion Press release July 1, 2019 Houston Voltage regulation system for the Kusenhorst substation Two-thirds of the multilevel STATCOMs installed worldwide are from Siemens In handing over the converter for a state-of-the-art grid stabilization system for voltage regulation to the German transmission grid operator Amprion, Siemens is celebrating delivery of its one-hundredth STATCOM (static synchronous compensator) from the SVC PLUS series. The turnkey installation will be deployed in the important Kusenhorst node in North Rhine Westphalia, Germany. STATCOM systems stabilize fluctuations in the grid by absorbing or feeding in voltage-supporting reactive power, depending on the requirements. This approach significantly reduces the risk of voltage drops and blackouts. Two-thirds of the globally installed STATCOM systems with modular multilevel converter technology (MMC) are from Siemens, making the company the world market leader in this segment. "Handing over the converter for the one-hundredth SVC PLUS system marks an important milestone for Siemens," says Mirko Düsel, head of Transmission Solutions at Siemens Gas and Power. "The growing share of renewable, volatile generation plants and the increasing transmission distance between power generation and the consumers means that power grids must be reoriented for the future. Rapid regulation of reactive power and digital add-on functions, such as the active filter function for improving power quality, are key elements in combination with power electronics." The SVC PLUS system for Amprion is designed for a reactive power range of %20/- 300 MVAr and will regulate and secure the voltage in the grid, depending on the requirements. "With the new STATCOM system for the Kusenhorst substation, we are investing in transmission grid safety and living up to our responsibility for secure grid operation," says Ludger Meier, who heads Operations and Engineering at Amprion. "We are pleased to have found a reliable technology partner in Siemens, a company that has already proven its expertise in providing the SVC PLUS system for the Kriftel substation." The heart of SVC PLUS, an enhanced STATCOM, is its MMC technology, which ensures that the generated voltage waveform is sinusoidal, and no harmonic filters are needed. As a result, the system takes up less space and can regulate the voltage at high speed. Voltage fluctuations can arise worldwide due to different factors, such as the volatile infeed of energy from renewable sources or the connection and disconnection of energy-intensive industrial plants. Voltage collapse can cause major disruptions. Since many large power plants, which used to provide the necessary reactive power, are leaving the grid as a result of global decarbonization, grid operators around the world are responding by building STATCOM systems. Siemens launched the SVC PLUS technology in 2008 by connecting the offshore wind farm in Thanet (UK) to the grid, which at the time was the largest of its kind in the world. In 2016, Siemens installed four SVC PLUS systems in India and thus secured one of the world's largest reactive power compensation projects at the 400 kV voltage level. Constantly developing the technology smoothed the way for additional grid stabilization solutions. In 2017, Siemens handed over its first mobile STATCOM to the American grid operator Dominion Energy. Preinstalled in containers, the mobile unit is a flexible solution for temporarily supporting the grid in the event of blackouts caused by emergencies such as earthquakes or critical threats. In the future, Siemens will continue moving toward digitalization in the area of grid stabilization. The goal is to give grid operators not only a purely passive means for monitoring their grids but also a load flow management system. Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025