Cybersecurity services for control systems Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Control system cybersecurity services At Siemens Energy, we know that cyber incidents are a serious risk that may disrupt power generation. That's why we minimize them. Minimizing cyber risks Our cybersecurity services for power plant control systems range from cybersecurity maintenance to incident response. Constantly analyzing plant data preventively allows us to detect and eliminate threats before they become a problem. If a security event turns out to be an actual incident, we react fast and support analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery from attacks. We are aware of the increasing cyber requirements placed on energy companies. Putting regulations and standards like NERC CIP or NIS into practice can be challenging and requires a combination of both cybersecurity skills and deeply-rooted power generation know-how – that’s why we are here to support you. Whether Omnivise T3000 ecosystem or other instrumentation and control (I&C) systems – with our cybersecurity experts, you stay up to date and cyber secure while focusing on your core competence: reliably providing energy to your customers. Do you want to learn more? Contact us Our services for a cyber secure control system Cyberattacks can cause economic harm and social disruptions, especially when targeting critical infrastructure. Therefore, operators of power generation units like wind, solar, combined-cycle or steam power plants must ensure that their control systems meet latest cybersecurity standards. Cybersecurity is a complex task that requires a high level of expertise to make a system secure. Developing comprehensive cybersecurity knowledge, meeting cybersecurity audit requirements, and raising personnel awareness takes time and money. Additionally, regular system maintenance is necessary to keep up with cyber threats – because they evolve just as quickly. Our cybersecurity services for control systems cover all aspects of cybersecurity, utilizing cloud-based and data analytic tools to check and automatically patch your control system. From consulting and training to maintenance support and incident response, with our I&C cybersecurity services, we take care of the cybersecurity future of your asset. Maintenance support Incident support We care about your plant's cybersecurity System and security updates and patches are vital to keep a control system cybersecure and stable in the long-term. We support you in this so that you can look forward to cyber attacks with peace of mind. Our cybersecurity maintenance support includes: Application whitelisting (AWL) maintenance service Network intrusion detection system (NIDS) maintenance service Omnivise T3000 malware protection Two-factor authentication server Hardware-based solution unidirectional gateway (data diode) Be prepared if an incident occurs A rapidly changing cyber environment means more risks. Consequently, as far as cyber security itself is concerned, there can never be a complete guarantee. Despite all precautions, a serious cyber incident can still occur. And if it does, it is essential to have the right processes, the right experts and an emergency plan in place to be able to tackle it. With our Cybersecurity Operations Center (cSOC), we support you in urgent cases and help you to minimize the impact of cyber incidents. Our cybersecurity incident support includes: ICMA cyber inspection by our Remote Expert Center (REC) cSOC Hotline security operated by our REC cSOC Incident response by our REC cSOC Consulting and training for cybersecurity Knowledge is the be-all and end-all when it comes to the cybersecurity of your control system. Knowing where a system is vulnerable and how to prevent an attack provides the opportunity for a clear strategy. Regulations and legislations affecting energy companies are growing and ever more demanding. To fully comply with all legal requirements the best cyber support and guidance is needed. This is what our comprehensive cybersecurity consulting (security gap assessment) and training offerings are designed for. Learn more The Cyber Security Operations Center (cSOC) The Cyber Security Operations Center (cSOC) is a cybersecurity competence center that offers services tailored to your needs and specifications. With our IT-OT experts, we combine unique knowledge and offer extensive services from cyber inspection to cyber hotline and incident response. Watch the video and find out how we successfully support our customers in the event of cyber incidents. Want to know even more? Download our cSOC whitepaper PDF (2 MB) Cyber inspection Omnivise cyber inspection is an end point detect and response (EDR) service that fulﬁlls the preventive part of REC cybersecurity service. Its capabilities are extended to the point where it can operate as a true remote forensics tool. To support compliance with regulations, cyber inspection offers cyberssecurity status (proﬁle) and event report, meeting ISO 27001 standards. This gives customers access to a detailed inventory of their systems conﬁgurations and settings. Daily data analysis is used to create alarms on abnormal situations. These alarms are extracted and presented including recommendation via the Siemens Energy Portal. More important, red alarms are daily managed by the REC cSOC cyber hotline team. Cyber hotline Whenever a cyber hotline ticket is raised by a red cyber inspection alarm or a reported issue from the customer is identiﬁed as a cyber issue, REC’s cSOC team reactively takes action. Before solving and/ or support rectifying possible problems, the ﬁrst level of support is Triage – which is a comprehensive standard algorithm. Triage aims to identify and separate events from cyber events that need to be handled in greater depth and will be handed over to the speciﬁc incident response service. Incident response If a real incident is identiﬁed in Triage, the incident response team is activated. Here a full forensic analysis of the system will be performed, and all levels of support are provided to the customer up to the point where a report submission is made to the appropriate authorities, if applicable. The incident response service will carry out a forensic investigation to identify the nature and origin of the threat in question, to clarify potential points of weakness, and conﬁrm elimination of the threat, together with recommendations and lessons learned. We partner with industry experts to ensure the highest possible security Tenable Tenable OT Security is integrated in our industrial control system Omnivise T3000, providing powerful tools to reduce the attack surface and improve security posture. Further offers and products Power Academy Customer Energy Portal The Power Academy is the hub of all controls and electrical related trainings within Siemens Energy. Offering a broad variety from classroom trainings to on-site and virtual reality (VR) trainings, you can decide what best fits your business needs. Learn more The Customer Energy Portal is your one-stop source for information about your Siemens Energy portfolio. It offers access to a multitude of support tools in an always available digital platform. It is a secure online platform, that gives you 24/7 access to sites specific up-to-date information. Learn more Contact us! At Siemens Energy, we built our Services with a focus on minimizing downtimes while maximizing performance, cut costs, and commitment to continuous improvement. We provide a comprehensive service for instrumentation, power plant automation and electrical systems. With our experience to support power plants from cradle to grave, we offer intelligent service concepts for plant maintenance throughout the entire lifecycle. Curious? Contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Control system services Learn more Omnivise T3000 Learn more I&C Monitors and Advisors Learn more Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations See all stories Read more July 21, 2022 Washington, DC Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure May 30, 2022 Munich From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025