SGT-300 industrial gas turbine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGT-300 gas turbine Compact arrangement, inherent reliability The Siemens Energy SGT-300 gas turbine is a proven and reliable solution for power generation and combined heat and power applications. With a single-shaft configuration providing an electrical power output of 7.9 MW and a twin-shaft version delivering a shaft output of 8.4 MW or 9.1 MW, the SGT-300 offers versatile power generation capabilities. Its compact design, on-site maintainability, and inherent reliability, combined with the ability to operate with a wide range of gaseous and liquid fuels, make it an efficient and flexible choice for various applications. Explore our interactive gas turbine portfolio template-360-siemens Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Highlights of the SGT-300 gas turbine Excellent steam-raising capability and efficiency In cogeneration configuration, with its excellent efficiency and high steam-raising capability, the SGT-300 forms the core of reliable, efficient and powerful combined heat and power plants. For industrial cogeneration, the high steam-raising capability of more than 18 tonnes per hour contributes towards achieving overall plant efficiencies of 80% or higher. Dry Low Emissions (DLE) For compliance with stringent environmental legislation, the SGT-300 gas turbine is equipped with a Dry Low Emissions (DLE) combustion system, providing low NOₓ emission levels with liquid and gaseous fuels. Emissions on gas fuel, corrected to 15% O₂ dry: NOₓ: < 10 ppmvd CO: < 10 ppmvd Fuel flexibility matters The SGT-300 operates on a wide range of gases, covering an extensive Wobbe fuel range. The engine, equipped with DLE burners, is capable to burn up to 30 vol% of hydrogen (H2). It is also able to burn a large number of liquid fuels and offers dual-fuel capability. You will benefit from automatic changeover from primary to secondary fuel at any load. Rapid core engine exchange minimizes downtime The SGT-300 can be maintained on-site. Furthermore, the option of rapid core turbine exchange will minimize the downtime of your gas turbine. Suitable for industrial power generation You can use the SGT-300 for a wide variety of power generation applications, including: Simple cycle applications Combined cycle applications Cogeneration for industrial plants with high heat load, district heating schemes Power generation for the oil and gas industry; e.g., onshore for use in oil fields or refinery applications, and offshore on platforms and FPSO vessels Suitable for mechanical drive - Best in class efficiency Typical mechanical drive applications are: Drive solution for pumping applications, e.g., transporting of crude oil and refinery products, or as pump drive for water injection in oil production Drive solution for compressors in gas injection, for pressure increase in pipeline applications, or in gas processing Core engine Package solutions Power plants Service Fuels Emissions Robust, flexible and high performing industrial gas turbine The single-shaft SGT-300 consists of a single twin-bearing rotor with heavy-duty casing. Quick core engine exchange is possible, which significantly cuts your maintenance-related downtime. The SGT-300 twin-shaft has a 2-stage gas generator turbine and a 2-stage power turbine. The core turbine is designed for high reliability with powerful performance and quick load following. Its modular design approach allows turbine module exchanges to be carried out on-site as an alternative to a gas generator or power turbine service exchange. Both versions of the SGT-300 gas turbine are equipped with a Dry Low Emissions (DLE) combustion system, providing low NOₓ emission levels with liquid and gaseous fuels and dual-fuel capability. SGT-300 core engine: single-shaft version SGT-300 core engine: twin-shaft version SGT-300 packages The compact SGT-300 gas turbine packages for power generation and mechanical drive applications comprise factory-tested modules, and offer a high power-to-weight ratio. The packages  incorporate gas turbine, gearbox (where applicable), drive unit and all factory-tested fluid modules mounted on an underbase, which you can easily transport, install and maintain on-site. The shop-tested and certified fluid system modules are the same for design across the SGT-100 to SGT-400 range and come fully wired into the package control systems: Auto drains module Gas fuel module Lube oil module Liquid fuel module (optional) The health and safety of the operation and maintenance staff are paramount. This is why our SGT-300 packages are designed with a special emphasis on, e.g., walkways and handrails, noise suppression, access doorways, and safety interlocks. Power generation package The SGT-300 package for power generation is suitable for simple cycle, combined cycle and cogeneration. High steam-raising capability, compact arrangement, on-site maintainability, and an inherent reliability make it an ideal choice for many applications, including applications in the demanding oil and gas industry. Mechanical drive package The mechanical drive package is very compact, with a small footprint and a high power-to-weight ratio. The twin-shaft configuration offers excellent speed and load turndown characteristics to allow maximum flexibility of operation. Cogeneration plants With its excellent efficiency and steam-raising capability of more than 18 tonnes per hour, the SGT-300 forms the core of reliable, efficient and powerful combined heat and power plants (CHP). This contributes towards achieving overall plant efficiencies of 80% or higher. When compared with conventional energy supplies, a cogeneration plant based on the SGT-300 will provide electrical power, heating and/or cooling with the benefit of: significant reductions in energy costs security of energy supplies reductions in total emissions of carbon dioxide improved flexibility Powering a cogeneration plant The SGT-300-based CHP plant was required to help provide for the energy needs of 13,000 people living and studying at an university campus, in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The plant runs predominantly at part load, with various load adjustments, and provides trigeneration: heating, cooling, and electrical power. Comprehensive portfolio of customer service activities Our comprehensive portfolio of services provides low life cycle cost and optimum performance throughout the turbine’s life cycle: Long Term Programs (LTP), overhaul service, field service, spare parts, service exchange, remote diagnostic service, and modernization and upgrades. Siemens specialists offer on-site support all over the world. The SGT-300 is designed for easy maintenance: Horizontally split compressor casing Horizontally and vertically split inlet casing Large side doors on enclosure for equipment exchange Internal lifting equipment Package designed for gas turbine removal on either side Rapid core exchange option for minimized downtimes The core engine maintenance can be performed on-site or off-site. Axial blade attachment The first stage rotor blades can be axially removed for quick and easy on-site exchange, maximizing availability. The first stage rotor blades can be axially removed for quick and easy on-site exchange, maximizing availability. Easy combustor maintenance For minimized downtimes and maximized availability, the combustion chambers, flame tubes and ignitors are easily accessible for inspection. Borescope holes Multiple borescope ports are used to inspect the engine. They allow visual inspection of the interior of the engine without disassembly. The borescope inspections prevent unnecessary maintenance. Coverage of a wide Wobbe range The single-shaft SGT-300 operates on a wide range of gases, including gas fuels outside of standard pipeline quality. It covers a Wobbe fuel range from approximately 50 MJ/m³ down to 17.5 MJ/m³, which include, e.g., gas fuels available in LNG liquefaction plants, wellhead gas and minimally processed, weak wellhead gas, biogas from ethanol, industry waste, or landfill gas. The engine, equipped with DLE burners, is capable to burn up to 30 vol% of hydrogen (H2). The SGT-300 is also able to burn a large number of liquid fuels and offers dual-fuel capability, with automatic changeover from primary to secondary fuel at any load. Robust combustion with high fuel flexibility For high fuel flexibility, the SGT-300 uses a robust can annular combustion system with six reverse-flow tubular chambers, and a high energy igniter in each combustor. Clean, flexible operation The SGT-300 DLE combustor burns a great variety of gaseous and liquid fuels and offers clean combustion with low emissions. Low emissions despite rugged industrial design The proven and reliable Dry Low Emissions (DLE) combustor offers clean combustion with low emissions over a wide operating range. The SGT-300 uses six reverse-flow tubular combustion chambers positioned around a high-pressure casing. Each burner contains its own ignition source and is capable of gas-only, liquid-only or dual-fuel operation. Fuel is controlled by both a pilot and a main burner, with the control system providing for smooth changeover across the power range. With the DLE combustion system, emission compliance at lower operating loads down to 50% or lower is possible. NOₓ emissions: ≤ 15 ppmvd (corrected to 15% O₂ dry) Clean combustion for stringent emission compliance The SGT-300 DLE combustion system provides NOₓ and CO emission compliance with the most stringent environmental legislations. NOₓ limitation with lean premix of air and fuel NOₓ emission increases exponentially with temperature. Therefore, it is critical to ensure that air and fuel are optimally mixed. The Siemens DLE combustion system achieves low emissions over a wide load range by a lean air/fuel premix flame with multiple fuel-injection points. Technical data Simple cycle power generation Mechanical drive Physical dimensions Performance data for simple cycle power generation Power output 7.9 MW(e) Fuel* Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Frequency 50/60 Hz Gross efficiency 30.8% Heat rate 11,704 kJ/kWh (11,094 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 14,045 rpm Pressure ratio 13.7 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 30.2 kg/s (66.6 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 534 °C (993° F) NOₓ emissions** ≤ 15 ppmvd *Other fuels on request; automatic changeover from primary to secondary fuel at any load | **NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) Performance data for mechanical drive 8 MW version 9 MW version Power output 8.4 MW 9.1 MW Fuel* Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Efficiency 35.3% 36.0% Heat rate 10,204 kJ/kWh (9,666 Btu/kWh) 10,003 kJ/kWh (9,476 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 5,750 – 11,500 – 12,075 rpm 5,750 – 11,500 – 12,075 rpm Pressure ratio 13.5 : 1 14.1 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 29.5 kg/s (67.0 lb/s) 30.4 kg/s )65.0 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 490 °C (914 °F) 504 °C (939 °F) NOₓ emissions** ≤ 15 ppmvd ≤ 15 ppmvd *Other fuels on request; automatic changeover from primary to secondary fuel at any load | **NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) Physical dimensions and weight Power generation package Mechanical drive package Approx. weight 58.967 kg (130,844 lb) 30,409 kg (67,042 lb) Length 11.9 m (39.0 ft) 6.9 m (22.6 ft) Width 2.7 m (8.8 ft) 2.9 m (9.5 ft) Height 4.0 m (13.1 ft) 3.5 m (11.5 ft) Dimensions exclude inlet filter housing and exhaust stack. For power generation, the AC generator is included. For mechanical drive, the driven equipment is excluded. The SGT-300 is suitable for the following applications and industries: Find out more about our gas turbine offerings In our download section, you can find brochures, technical papers, and more. Or you can contact us directly for specific inquiries. Brochures Gas turbine portfolio (interactive PDF) PDF (18 MB) Download Articles and Papers Technical papers Download Poster SGT-300 Poster PDF (135 KB) Download Hundreds of installations worldwide With more than 150 units sold worldwide, the SGT-300 is operating in all regions around the globe. Refinery Power Generation, Ecuador (2020) Customer: Petroecuador 1 x SGT-300 package providing power at Shusufindi refinery Orient Champion (2015) Industrial cogeneration Customer: Shanghai Orient Champion Paper Co, Ltd 2 x SGT-300 gas turbine package providing power and heat Read more Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025