Digital Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Digitalization for the Oil and Gas Industry Discover your untapped assets. Why Digitalization Matters for Oil and Gas The ‘Internet of Things’ (IoT) is driving the rapid pace of digital adoption across multiple industries. The oil and gas industry is beginning a transformation of its own, increasingly looking toward data-driven solutions to boost performance, enhance efficiency and ultimately, to reduce costs. Siemens Energy helps customers optimize the performance of critical oil and gas assets and equipment. We draw on an extensive software portfolio, deep expertise in data analytics and extensive experience in oil and gas and other industries. Digital Portfolio Cybersecurity Digitalization and cybersecurity go hand-in-hand when it comes to protecting assets against cyberattacks. Read more Optimize your Oil and Gas Production with Artificial Lift Technologies Digital technologies are helping almost every industry rewrite its operating landscape, and the oil and gas industry is catching up. Advancements in technology, the falling cost of digitalization, and the connectivity of smart devices provide a real competition-beating opportunity for oil and gas companies who play the digital revolution right. The potential benefits of going digital are increased productivity, shorter response and intervention times, cost savings, safer operations, and asset integrity as well as sustainable resource treatment. By utilizing our highly engineered Artificial Lift technologies like AI4ESP or SIWELL, we are able to efficiently optimize automation for well pumps. SIWELL The Ivar Aasen Field Development Project Reducing OPEX through condition monitoring on a North Sea platform. Think offshore production can be profitable in a cyclical oil and gas market? Aker BP does. And so does Siemens Energy. In fact, Aker BP's bold publically stated objective is to drive production costs to US$7 per barrel. On the Ivar Aasen Field Development project Siemens worked closely with Aker BP to implement condition monitoring—a data-driven approach to optimizing equipment maintenance schedules, and ultimately, to reducing costs. Instead of monitoring critical equipment from a North Sea platform, Aker BP personnel monitor it from an onshore control room in Trondheim, Norway, 1,000 km away. A unique process known as time-stamping, as opposed to the more conventional sampling, enhances the accuracy of the acquired machine data, better positioning crews to predict and preempt any maintenance issues. The net result? Fewer personnel working on the remote offshore platform for extended periods, not to mention traveling to and from the jobsite via helicopter, and a significant OPEX savings. Digitalization of offshore operations reduces production costs A case study shows how advanced condition-monitoring technologies - plus analytical expertise - can optimize maintenance of mission-critical equipment in offshore environments, while lowering costs and improving safety. Data-driven remote condition monitoring optimizes offshore maintenance, reduces cost s As the world’s oil and gas industry strives to expand margins by reducing production costs wherever possible, advanced capabilities enabled by the integration and digitalization of upstream operations can help in substantial ways. One prime example is remote condition monitoring of well-site equipment, especially offshore. Aker BP deployed remote condition monitoring on its offshore platform, built to develop Ivar Aasen field in the Norwegian North Sea, in an effort to reduce OPEX costs, increase regularity and improve operations safety. Download article Key Cybersecurity Controls for Reliable Pipeline Operation This technical paper presents Siemens Energy's view on key cybersecurity defensive mechanisms based on the pipeline control and communications systems defense-in-depth approach, focusing on Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) protection measures, sequence of event (SOE) clock synchronization, multi-factor authentication, early-warning cyber intrusion detection and ransomware recovery. Originally published in Pipeline Technology Journal, April 2020. Read the technical paper Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025