Cybersecurity Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Cybersecurity – protecting what we value What comes to mind when you think of cybersecurity? Hackers and firewalls? It's about much more. It's about protecting valuable assets, securing the operation of critical infrastructure, and protecting sensitive data and intellectual property. At Siemens Energy, a large number of top experts work day-to-day to ensure such security and make the difference. Why cybersecurity? A topic that’s growing in importance Malicious hacker attacks on companies, industrial plants and infrastructure facilities are unfortunately commonplace these days. With the growing level of digitalization and expanding Industrial Internet of Things (IIOT), risks of hacking attacks are increasing not only on a company’s IT but especially on its operational technology (OT). Download our cybersecurity flyer (English) Download our cybersecurity flyer (German) Major cybersecurity market trends Artificial intelligence The development of more and more generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools is creating new threats and opportunities for companies. Third-party risks The increasing complexity in supply chains and in connections to customers creates cybersecurity risks from third parties. Insecure behavior Today’s complex digital working world and the high number of attempted attacks, e.g. via phishing, leads to a growing risk of insecure employee behavior. Laws and regulations Legal obligations continue to increase globally – with the transition from voluntary to mandatory application of cyber practices and reporting of incidents. Threat exposure Cyber threats are evolving rapidly while the attack surface is expanding, e.g. through the increased use of SaaS, digital supply chains, or social media. Cyber-skills shortage A global cyber-skills shortage is becoming the largest barrier to achieving an organization’s strategic cyber-resilience objectives. How 'defence in depth' can repel energy sector cyberattacks Industrial cybersecurity is crucial to keep the lights on. Power plants and grid operators must be aware of the risks they face and the security concepts necessary to protect our energy infrastructure. With the ever-changing threat landscape, adapting to new technologies and sophisticated attacks is a constant challenge. Security by design is essential to reduce the attack surface from the start. Read the article Taking the right measures Businesses today face cyberattacks on a number of fronts. In so-called ransomware attacks, for example, attackers seek to lock companies out of their own IT systems so they can extort substantial ransom sums. Other criminal groups attempt to sabotage energy supplies by attacking power plants or electricity grids. The damage to companies and national economies can be immense. According to researchers, the average cost of a ransomware attack is $4.54 Million. And by 2031, a new ransomware attack is projected to occur every two seconds and cost its victims $265 billion annually. But if the right measures are taken, there can be effective protection against such attacks. Siemens Energy is a leader in the field of industrial cybersecurity, backed by comprehensive expertise and many years of experience. We have developed highly effective concepts and approaches to help our customers secure themselves against any type of cyberattack. Download our cybersecurity flyer (English) Download our cybersecurity flyer (German) Applying a holistic security concept Cybersecurity must be viewed as a whole. At Siemens Energy, our job is to ensure the security of entire value chains and system lifecycles. We are exposed to and must neutralize an increasing number of security risks. Similarly, our customers have to deal with security risks, and they don’t want to have these risks increased by the use of our products, solutions, and services. Providing secure products, solutions, and services for our customers not only requires secure development, engineering and operation from our side. Just as important is ensuring the security of the associated Siemens Energy infrastructure, premises and people. We ensure that all relevant components and processes are seamlessly integrated into a well-fortified overall system to ensure fully protected operation. Industrial cybersecurity Our Product and Solution Security (PSS) initiative enables our customers to securely operate and maintain their facilities. As an integrator and contractor, we provide state-of-the-art cybersecurity solutions including secure products that meet all legal requirements. To address risks, challenges and opportunities, Siemens Energy maintains a management system for PSS and controls risks in a systematic way. Relying on proven mechanisms, we ensure the integrity of our portfolio by leveraging secure-by-design and defense-in-depth concepts. Our products and processes are based on international security standards such as IEC 62443. We ensure our technology leadership by continuously enhancing our products, systems, solutions, and services with state-of-the-art cybersecurity features. Active cyber risk management The integrated Cybersecurity Risk Management Framework at Siemens Energy aims at safeguarding all relevant company assets against cyber threats by managing associated risks. We combine information from various sources to actively monitor, communicate and mitigate critical cyber risks in close collaboration with our colleagues from within the business. Our Cybersecurity Risk Management Framework is based on ISO 27005 and aligned with industry best practices. By constantly evolving our tools, methods, and processes, we support the achievement of corporate objectives, the protection of company assets and financial sustainability. Cybersecurity for our customers Report potential incidents or subscribe to security advisories Our team of security experts for incident response and issues affecting Siemens Energy products, solutions, services, and infrastructure. Siemens Energy CERT services Cybersecurity solutions and services Cybersecurity for the oil and gas industry Like critical industries everywhere, oil and gas operations – upstream, midstream, and downstream – make prime targets for cyber threats of all kinds. Siemens Energy provides a complete portfolio of cybersecurity solutions from assess and plan over protect to detect and respond solutions. More Cybersecurity for power transmission Critical infrastructure like power transmission systems are increasingly becoming the focus for cyber-attacks. Our comprehensive HVDC and FACTS cybersecurity service portfolio includes the identification of cyber vulnerabilities, the protection of all systems from cyber threats, including a fast service response to cyber incidents, and finally consulting and awareness trainings. More Sensformer® and Cybersecurity The Sensformer® IoT device allows key transformer data such as oil temperature, oil level and inductor current to be securely sent to a cloud service with the help of automatic registration and cryptographically secured communication between the device and the cloud service. More Cybersecurity news at Siemens Energy Looking through the industrial cyber portal The Energy Industry Times Editor-in-Chief Junior Isles reports on Siemens Energy's industrial cyber security portal that simplifies the integration of cyber security into each project. Read more Four reasons why innovation in cybersecurity needs diversity LinkedIn article by Dr. Judith Wunschik, Chief Cybersecurity Officer & Global Head of Cybersecurity at Siemens Energy, on why diversity has a positive impact on corporate innovation and cybersecurity. Read more Cyber security: the need for organised innovation In this trade press article from The Energy Industry Times, editor-in-chief Junior Isles hears how Siemens Energy is taking an organised approach to managing cyber security innovation. Read more How to protect your business from a supply chain cyber-attack Trade press article from Smart Energy International in which Annie Priljeva, Head of Cybersecurity Third-Party Risk Management at Siemens Energy, explains how her team ensures cybersecurity risks are identified and managed throughout the supply chain. Read more IEC certification for SPPA-T3000 control system LinkedIn article by Timo Hirsch, Vice President Central & Eastern Europe - Controls & Digitalization at Siemens Energy, on IEC 62443-3-3 and IEC 62443-4-1 certification from TÜV SÜD for the SPPA-T3000 control system. Read more Cybersecurity for the energy world “We protect what’s mission critical – Cybersecurity for the energy world” – LinkedIn article by Siemens Energy Executive Board Member Tim Holt on the importance of cybersecurity for the energy industry. Read more Intelligent illumination for IoT cyber defense Eos.ii™ is the first AI-based monitoring and detection platform that can serve as the foundation for securing industrial IoT in an era of persistent cyberattacks. Read more Cooperation with NATO at “Locked Shields" Siemens Energy was one of a few companies to support the “Locked Shields” high-level cyber defense exercise conducted by the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CCDCOE) in April 2021. Experts from Siemens Energy's cybersecurity organization simulated, among other things, an attack on key energy infrastructure facilities. Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025