Siemens Energy’s grid stabilizer technology to help Irish grid exceed renewables penetration limit Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy’s grid stabilizer technology to help Irish grid exceed renewables penetration limit Press release May 4, 2021 Munich Supply of Ireland’s first turnkey synchronous condenser system Installation of the world’s largest flywheel Ensuring grid stability by providing sufficient inertia, short-circuit power and reactive power Siemens Energy will supply a synchronous condenser system to the Electricity Supply Board (ESB), Ireland’s leading energy company. The grid stabilizing system will be developed at the Moneypoint power station located in South-West Ireland near Kilrush, County Clare. ESB recently announced the launch of Green Atlantic @ Moneypoint, an ambitious plan to transform the County Clare site into a green energy hub, where a range of renewable technologies will be deployed over the next decade with the capacity to power 1.6 million homes. The synchronous condenser, a key component of ESB’s Green Atlantic @ Moneypoint project, will be the first in the country and incorporate the world’s largest flywheel used for grid stability. The facility will enable an increased integration of wind power into the Irish grid by providing sufficient inertia for frequency support, short-circuit power for system strength and reactive power for voltage control. Commissioning of the new plant is planned for mid-2022. Paul Smith, Head of Asset Development at ESB Generation and Trading, welcomed the announcement: “Due to the intermittency of wind energy in particular, grid stabilization technologies have an increasingly important role in a successful energy transition. We are pleased to bring forward the Moneypoint Synchronous Compensator with flywheel as a cost effective and zero carbon solution in strengthening the stability and resilience of the Irish grid. Siemens Energy provided an optimum technical and competitive solution for Moneypoint in its continuing key role in Ireland’s electricity system.” Siemens Energy will deliver the synchronous condenser system, providing engineering, procurement, and construction. Key components are a control system which optimally fits to the overlaying grid automation system, a synchronous generator with circuit-breaker and a flywheel. In addition, Siemens Energy will provide the preventive maintenance for ten years with remote diagnostics. The synchronous condenser will, in turn, help management of Ireland’s transmission system with a reduced dispatch of fossil fuel plant under constraints and reduced costs of transmission operations. “Synchronous condensers are an important building block for mastering the transition to climate-neutral, CO 2-free power generation,” says Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy. “We are proud that ESB has chosen us to build the first system of this kind in Ireland. Our solution will provide the maximum possible inertia and reactive power to stabilize the Irish grid, helping the country press ahead with its ambitious plans for the expansion of renewable energies.” Nick O’Mahony, Managing Director, Siemens Energy, Ireland, added: “The energy transition is happening at pace and to make sure the grid can keep up, we need to look at innovative solutions to keep the grid stable. I’m delighted we have been able to support ESB with this project, bringing this key technology to the country.” With the rising share of renewable power and the shutdowns of conventional plants, synchronous condensers are playing an increasingly important role in the grid. By means of the rotating mass of a conventional generator, the solution adjusts conditions on the transmission grid, provides the necessary inertia to support the grid frequency and short-circuit contribution while also providing or absorbing reactive power. In addition, synchronous condensers can diversify revenue for owners and operators while providing an important cash flow contribution. The synchronous condenser, Siemens Energy will supply to ESB, will be the first in the country and incorporate the world’s largest flywheel used for grid stability. It will be a key component of ESB’s Green Atlantic @ Moneypoint project, an ambitious plan to transform the County Clare site into a green energy hub. Links Further information on Siemens Energy Transmission Further information on synchronous condensers Contact Sara Crane Sara.Crane@siemens-energy.com +44 7921 847640 Contact Christina Hümmer Christina.Huemmer@siemens-energy.com +49 152 07158923 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (106 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025