Siemens Energy’s gas turbine technology to support cleaner, more efficient energy production on island of Cyprus Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy’s gas turbine technology to support cleaner, more efficient energy production on island of Cyprus Press release March 9, 2021 Munich First private gas-fired combined cycle power plant on Cyprus More than 50% CO 2 emissions reduction thanks to switch from heavy fuel oil to natural gas Supply of three SGT-800 gas turbines and long-term maintenance services As the Republic of Cyprus eyes a system of cleaner, more efficient and less costly energy production, Cyfield Construction Ltd., one of the leading construction companies in Cyprus, and Siemens Energy are working together to support the island’s much-anticipated transition toward decarbonization moving from expensive, environmentally unfriendly heavy fuel oil to natural gas. As part of this transition, Cyfield has chosen Siemens Energy to supply technology and long-term service for the 260-megawatt (MW) Cyfield Mari combined-cycle power plant. Three SGT-800 gas turbines will operate in a 3x1 combined-cycle configuration. With Siemens Energy’s latest advanced SGT-800 technology, the plant will achieve the highest efficiency levels in this power plant range and the expected carbon dioxide emissions are estimated to be more than 50% lower than the average current emissions of electricity production in Cyprus. The Siemens Energy scope of supply for the new Cyfield Mari power plant includes three SGT-800 gas turbines, three SGen5-100A generators and a 20-year long-term service and maintenance agreement. The new power plant is anticipated to be in full operation by 2023 and is projected to be in line with the arrival of liquified natural gas (LNG) on the island. Cyprus’ new LNG terminal is currently under construction. Until now the island grid of Cyprus is almost completely served by heavy fuel oil fired boilers. As the space for wind and solar power is limited on the island, the switch to natural gas is also the key lever to reduce harmful sulphur oxide and to keep particle emissions to a minimum. In addition, the station’s performance will lead to a significant reduction in the cost of electricity and supply as much as one third of Cyprus’s electricity needs. “We are very proud to support Cyprus in advancing the decarbonization of its energy system by supplying our leading SGT-800 gas turbines,” said Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy. “The new power plant will be a landmark for sustainable power production on the island and ensures a reliable, environmentally friendly and economical electricity supply for many years to come. The gas turbines easily can be upgraded to burn e.g. hydrogen, so that fuel should become available in the future.” “The development of this power plant is vital for the energy sufficiency and independence of Cyprus. Additionally, the cost of electricity will be significantly lower for Cyprus businesses and households, directly benefiting the economy,” said Kyriakos Chrysochos, founder of the Cyfield Group. “Cyfield is proud to be part of Cyprus’ energy transition away from heavy fuel oil towards significantly cleaner natural gas. With Siemens Energy as the supplier of the gas turbines, we count on producing electricity for the island with the most efficient and reliable gas turbines in the market. Cyfield appreciates the constructive support by Siemens Energy since the beginning of our power plant project and we have high expectations on the future collaboration.” With more than ten million total fleet operating hours and more than 425 units sold, the SGT-800 gas turbine is ideally suited for power generation, where reliability and efficiency are crucial. Contact Kerstin Schirmer Siemens Energy kerstin.schirmer@siemens-energy.com +49 (172) 2669588 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (192 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks December 15, 2022 Berlin First tests for Power-to-Hydrogen-to-Power HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully completed See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025