Distributed power generation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Distributed Generation The future is now Managing your energy supply Whether your business is an industry, campus, municipality, infrastructure facility or data centre, you need an affordable, reliable and sustainable energy supply. Our portfolio provides efficient power generation on your site, when and where you need it, thereby securing energy supply for the future. Our portfolio reflects the world's shift from large CO₂ intensive technologies into a diverse energy landscape consisting of smaller, decentralised power providers, consumers and prosumers, who are looking for solutions that ensure stable and cost-efficient operations with less emissions. Cost-efficient Cost-cutting alternative to power from grid Combined heat and power generation reduces energy cost by up to 30%, as it utilizes the energy to also provide electricity in a highly efficient way Modernizations improve efficiency and product life Sell overcapacity to the grid Turn available waste heat and steam into power Replace only what’s necessary (Brownfield exchange option) Reliable supply 24/7 Full control over the power supply Reliable and flexible supply of energy Back-up power option with a short start-up time Fast track power solutions in case of natural disaster and blackout Availability up to 99.995% including service intervals Tests, repairs and refurbish programs Future-proof and flexible Fuel flexibility given already by today; easy to adopt to fuels of the future (e.g. e-hydrogen, e-methane, e-methanol, e-diesel) Development with the needs of the enterprise - with product lifecycle services, remote diagnostics, upgrades, revamps, or brownfield exchange Broad flexibilitiy in fuels, operating conditions, maintenance concepts, package solutions, and ratings Meet sustainability targets Stabilization of fluctuating power from renewables Affordable approach for decarbonizing energy systems Up to 50% CO₂ reduction by shifting coal-based to gas-based power supply Up to 90% efficiency with combined heat and power No lock-in effect; easily upgraded for fossil-free fuels when available Fuel flexibility option available in our gas turbines; 100% hydrogen capability until 2030 Tailored plug & play Standardized, well-proven solutions tailored to different industry needs Adaptable and fuel-flexible system, including back-up power or energy storage Brownfield exchange Single-lift option for limited space requirements Complete plug and play power solution when there’s no land available (e.g. Seafloat) Ready for green fuels? With the establishment of climate objectives and the ongoing transition to renewable energy, the utilization of fossil fuels is expected to diminish. In the context of heat and power generation, the need for flexibility and self-reliance in fuel choices is becoming increasingly crucial. Green fuels can be one solution. Click here to read more Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center How can we build a flexible and sustainable energy system with gas turbines, renewable energy sources and energy storage? As power from solar and wind is volatile and doesn’t always match the energy demand, hydrogen produced from these green energy sources can be used as an energy storage solution and used as fuel in the gas turbines to balance the grid. Check out our demo plant! 99 words on ... ... aspects of distributed power generation that you would never have thought might influence your business now or in the near future. Air quality in street canyons No water, no power. Right? Air quality in street canyons First introduced in Singapore in 1975, such zones are nowadays located in cities worldwide. Car traffic limitations, tree planting. What else? Look at the sidewalk. Do you notice any ventilation grids? There might be a diesel backup engine of a hospital, office or data center beneath your feet. Even modern, diesel-fueled backup generators of Tier-4 standards could lead to high concentrations of poisonous exhaust plumes in urban street canyons which may explain why gas turbines, and batteries have become the preferred backup power source for many data centers . No water, no power. Right? The World Bank has announced the Thirsty Energy Initiative . The World Energy Council has published The Road to Resilience Report - Managing the Risks of the energy-water-food nexus. In April 2021, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation presented the 2-year forecast which could lead to the first water shortage declaration in the Western United States. Let´s save water for drinking. Combine a gas turbine with Organic Rankin Cycle (ORC) technology for waste heat recovery without water in a Heat ReCycle powerplant . Soon, cutting-edge technology will allow upgrading the gas turbine to burn 100% hydrogen in DLE (dry low emissions). Municipalities and utilities You stand at the forefront of the energy transition. You manage it actively and with confidence. You choose your customized mix of power generation technologies - e.g. wind farms, photovoltaic plants, and combined heat and power (CHP) with heat pumps and energy storage solutions . You choose solutions that balance sustainability and economic efficiency. Catching the wave, you see the market opportunities arising due to the integration of heating and cooling and soaring market demand for excess power generation. Interconnecting technologies enable you to optimize energy costs while supporting the transformation to a more sustainable energy system. You are ready for any scenario, and combine the security of supply with new business models, including regular servicing intervals and remote service inspections. You are never shy of using new technologies that allow you to show your full potential, even if the municipality or utility is located in an area where land is scarce or on an island. Infrastructure facilities and campuses Of course, you are walking on the path to carbon neutrality. Any step you take, the first thing that comes to  mind is resilient power generation. The second  is cost optimisation. You take control and safeguard your power for years to come by generating power on-site using reliable technologies that would secure the future energy supply. Naturally, distributed power generation is what you rely on, as you can use the benefits of the methodology of optimisation of energy mix, energy-efficiency increases, smart consumption reduction and resilience. Careful as you may be, you are assured of a servicing infrastructure at hand. Manufacturing and process industries You realize the potential of your plant. With on-site energy generation and storage, you optimize all energy matters from generation and consumption up to re-use. Dependence is a word you do not have in your business dictionary. On-site solutions provide a resilient power supply, which safeguards your processes. These solutions include waste to energy, CHP - combined heating and cooling and power generation and the integration of renewables. A local energy solution gives you also control over costs in respect of the grid, and even has the potential of creating revenue by enabling active participation in the energy market. You carefully analyse trends in your industry and adjust your business to future demand. On-site power generation develops together with your plant, allowing you to use fuel flexibly and increase output to cover your future growth. Our flagship projects: Outstanding power generation Hyflex Power Hydrogen industrial plant The world’s first integrated power-to-X-to-power hydrogen gas turbine demonstrator Siemens Energy and Air Liquide have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the objective to combine their expertise in PEM (Proton Exchange Membrane) electrolysis technology. Chonburi / Rayong, Thailand Combined cycle cogeneration power plants Customer: Amata B.Grimm Power Ltd. and B.Grimm Power Ltd. Scope: 18 x SGT-800 gas turbines, and 9 x SST-400 steam turbines Nine power plants, located in industrial parks within an approximately 200 km radius of Bangkok, are supplying power, steam and chilled water to industrial users Increasing Competitiveness at Full Steam Grupo Kaltex | Altamira, Mexico | Industrial, Textiles Dedicated CHP plant generating process steam for the manufacture of synthetic textile fibers SGT-750 gas turbine exceeding the guaranteed output of 31.7 MW for the conditions on site (28°C) Improved position in a highly competitive, international market thanks to CHP's capabilities Products and solutions supporting a reliable, affordable, and efficient power supply Gas turbines Siemens  Energy gas turbines fulfill the high requirements of a wide spectrum of applications in terms of efficiency, reliability, flexibility and environmental compatibility. Read more Steam turbines We are setting standards for steam-based power production. Siemens Energy steam turbines are an ideal choice for cogeneration. More than 20,000 are currently in operation around the world. Steam turbines Read more Generators Siemens Energy generators ranging from 25 to 2,235 MVA achieve efficiency levels of up to 99 percent. Around the globe, more than 2,500 units from our SGen™ series are generating power today. Read more Small hydro power Small hydro power plants have proven to be a sustainable source of energy. Learn more about Siemens Energy’s comprehensive solutions that turn water into energy. Read more Services Increase the flexibility, efficiency, reliability, and availability of your power generation assets throughout their entire lifecycle – with service solutions from our highly skilled and deeply committed Siemens Energy Service Experts. Read more Heat pumps Heat pumps are an efficient and cost-effective solution for the generation of heat and cold. Proven high and low temperature heat pumps for up to 150°C and 70 MWth Read more Articles and papers Flexible fuel gas turbines meet airports’ power needs for today and tomorrow PDF (156 KB) Download Clean power boost in Central Europe: SGT-800 combined heat and power plants PDF (1 MB) Download Decentralized energy generation in Thailand: SGT-800 combined cycle power plants PDF (1 MB) Download Industrial gas turbines: the perfect complement for renewables-plus-storage (The Energy Industry Times, Sep 2021) PDF (2 MB) Download Flexible fuel gas turbines meet airports’ power needs for today and tomorrow (Power Engineering International, Dec 2021) PDF (156 KB) Download Green biofuels: A proven fuel for gas turbines (Diesel&Gas Turbine Worldwide, April-June 2022) PDF (790 KB) Download Schwarzheide opens its heart to carbon neutrality, The Energy Industry Times, Nov 2022 PDF (748 KB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025