Siemens Energy and Kineticor advance Canada’s decarbonization efforts Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy and Kineticor advance Canada’s decarbonization efforts Press release August 31, 2020 Munich New 900-megawatt (MW) combined cycle power plant to provide over eight percent of Alberta’s energy supply Siemens Energy to provide its state-of-the-art natural gas turbine technology and service Project designed to significantly reduce the province’s carbon footprint from energy Futhering its commitment to decarbonizing the energy sector worldwide, Siemens Energy has been selected to provide its highly efficient gas turbine technology and long-term services to the planned 900 MW Cascade Power Plant in Alberta, Canada. The project supports the decarbonization of Alberta's power supply by switching from coal to natural gas. Once operational, the power plant is expected to reduce Alberta’s carbon emissions from energy production by up to five percent. The SGT6-8000H, like the one above, offers high operational flexibility and low lifecycle costscaption Siemens Energy received the order from Kineticor, a developer and manager of clean power projects across Canada with the end user being the Cascade Power Project Limited Partnership. The order value is in excess of EUR330 million. The plant is expected to begin operating in 2023. Per the agreement, Siemens Energy will provide two highly efficient SGT6-8000H gas tubines in single shaft combine cycle configuration, steam turbines and heat recovery steam generators as well as long-term services. The 900MW Cascade Power Plant, to be located near Edson, Alberta, is designed to produce low emissions and highly efficient electricity that is expected to supply over eight percent of the province’s average electricity demand. Furthermore, the project is expected to create 600 peak jobs and 25 long-term positions. In the power sector, Alberta contributes over 50 percent of Canada’s greenhouse gas emissions and as such the Cascade Power Plant is expected to result in one of the largest emissions reduction opportunities in the country’s electricity sector. “This agreement is a perfect testament to Siemens Energy’s long-term commitment to helping our customers meet their decarbonization goals,” said Jochen Eickholt, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy. “The Cascade Power Plant project will benefit Alberta by not only substantially reducing emissions, but also by providing jobs and other economic benefits to the region.” “Kineticor is extremely pleased to have Siemens Energy as part of this project,” said Andrew Plaunt, CEO of Kineticor. “The state-of-the-art technology and service they are providing will enable the project to contribute to reducing Alberta’s carbon footprint while providing a reliable source of energy.” And Arne Wohlschlegel, Managing Director of Siemens Energy Canada, added: “Siemens Energy gas turbine technology is among the most efficient powerful gas turbines in commercial operation and we are proud to be a part of the Cascade Power Plant project that will greatly impact Alberta’s economy and energy supply. We look forward to working with Kineticor and the other partners throughout the project.” Making a global contribution to decarbonization, Siemens Energy offers all core technologies for a long-term CO2-free energy supply – from power and heat generation by renewable energies or gas-fired power plants, to power transmission and distribution, to efficient electrolysis for hydrogen production. Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (128 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future. It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025