Digital Solutions (Omnivise Portfolio) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Omnivise solutions Redefining energy – together Let the digital transformation journey begin It starts right here with Omnivise – a suite of people-led, future-focused, digitally enabled solutions. Every solution is customized to your needs so you can better operate, analyze, and optimize your plant - one name, many solutions, measurable results. As market and technology demands change and we move toward digitally automated operations, new challenges arise. With over 170 years of experience and a rich history of plant optimization, Siemens Energy is excited to help lead this change with our suite of control and digital solutions. Contact us The changing energy landscape comes with various challenges Operational flexibility Trying to balance baseload power with emerging renewable sources is getting tougher every day. Aging workforce Operators are retiring. Training new people on older systems is getting more and more difficult. Emission regulations Keeping up with new emission regulations without major investments is a challenge for all plant operators. Cybersecurity compliance Operators need to protect their plants against cyber attacks. Documenting compliance according to all legal requirements is a must nowadays. Start with us – discover our comprehensive Omnivise portfolio Controls Discover our proven control system Omnivise T3000 for reliable operation of your plant. Read more Electricals Our Electrical Solutions cover your plant’s electrical infrastructure for maximized reliability. Read more Service Our comprehensive service offerings help you to minimize downtimes, maximize performance and optimize costs. Read more Cybersecurity We help our customers confront the growing cyber threat with our protection, detection, and monitoring solutions. Read more Performance Our Performance Management Solutions help to boost efficiencies while lowering production costs and carbon emissions. Read more Asset Management Our modern software suite which covers all power generation core processes and domains to support both local and remote teams combines deep domain know-how, latest technologies and methods, and modern software design. Read more Your path to plant autonomy Omnivise does more than optimize your plant's performance, it also helps to prepare you for future of the industry... the autonomous plant. In the articles below you can find different approaches how Siemens Energy is paving the way to unmanned plant operation in the future. Autonomous power plant Unleashing AI in power plants Robots and drones for autonomous energy systems Watch our webinar "Journey to unmanned plant operation" to learn more about the Leipheim project in Germany. Webinar Industry insights As we transition to the digital age, Siemens Energy helps you stay on top of the latest industry news, trends, and technologies. Energy Central – Digital Report, December 2023 Driving sustainability with digitalisation Read more Energy Central – The Digital Utility, Nov/Dec 2023 SPECIAL ISSUE Digital utility security by design Read more POWER Magazine, April 2022 Experiencing the power of virtualization Read more Related products and services Digital Services Cybersecurity for energy Condition monitoring and machinery protection I&C monitors and advisors GT Auto Tuner Omnivise Asset Management Plant Software as a Service (Plant-SaaS) Continuous performance optimization Omnivise Hybrid Control Online monitoring, diagnostics & predictive maintenance Power diagnostics services live package Predictive Emission Monitoring System (PEMS) Software solution EMIDATE - Emissions under control Ready to get started? Read more November 14, 2022 9 min read Haru Oni: eFuel plant of the future July 1, 2021 7 min read Robots, digital twins and AI: When power plants run themselves December 10, 2021 7 min read What a real-time brain for microgrids can do for decarbonization February 16, 2022 6 min read How AI can harness the knowledge of your power plant 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025