Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center (ZEHTC) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center – on the path to decarbonization Showcasing a future energy system with hydrogen turbines The next decades are expected to be among the most transformative the energy sector has ever seen when the world is moving away from fossil fuels. As part of this transformation we expanded our own gas turbine test facility in the town of Finspång, Sweden, to become a model of the future energy system. Together with international partners within the research project Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center (ZEHTC) we set up a demonstration plant to showcase a flexible and sustainable energy system connecting gas turbines with hydrogen, renewable energy and energy storage. This provided valuable insights to be able to accelerate into a decarbonized energy future. Four learnings These are the four main learnings from the Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center project so far; Hydrogen reduces average electricity costs in decarbonised energy systems Hydrogen gas turbines provide plannable electricity in wind-dominated power systems Hydrogen-based power plants can be critical for ensuring electrical grid stability Liquid green fuels are a valuable complement to hydrogen Get all the details it in this article published in Modern Power Systems in June, 2023 The Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center at a glance H₂ production Onsite hydrogen production from renewables and excess electricity Decreased CO₂ emissions Hydrogen enabling decarbonization of gas turbine operation Micro grids and energy storage Platform for sharing know-how on flexible energy systems and hydrogen solutions Extended hydrogen testing resources Enabling extended testing toward 100 percent hydrogen capability The project idea Watch our video to learn more The demonstrator plant provides valuable insights to be able to accelerate into a decarbonized energy future. Read more about the project and all the partners on our partner website Visit ZEHTC.org How does it work? The test center opens up multiple possibilities: Excess energy from gas turbine tests and electricity from solar panels is used to produce hydrogen in an electrolyzer. The energy is stored as compressed hydrogen and in batteries. This way a closed loop plant is created, producing its own hydrogen for our continued research and development to optimize the use of hydrogen in gas turbines. All this also while supporting our goal to be able to run our gas turbines on 100% hydrogen by 2030. Click on the labels to learn more about the components of the solution The future of gas turbines So, what is the role of gas turbines in a sustainable energy system? Gas turbines have proven to be very effective in balancing intermittent renewable energy production due to their flexibility and short ramp-up times. According to the International Energy Agency, gas turbines will play an important role in providing flexibility in the electrical grid in a Sustainable Development Scenario. H₂ capabilities of our medium-sized gas turbines As of today, the gas turbines we're testing in our new Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center are ready to burn up to 75% of hydrogen in the fuel mix. And step by step we aim to reach 100% by 2030. Hydrogen Decarbonization Calculator SGT-600 | 24 / 25 MW SGT-700 | 33 / 34 MW SGT-750 | 40 / 34–41 MW SGT-800 | 62 / 45–62 MW A sustainable energy system Gas turbines with hydrogen as fuel have great potential to provide more stability in future energy systems that involve increasing shares from renewable sources without increasing carbon emissions. As power from solar and wind is highly volatile and does not always match the energy demand, hydrogen – produced from these green energy sources – can be used as an energy storage solution. The subsequent combustion of hydrogen results in zero carbon emissions. Gas turbines provide in themselves renewable power when running on hydrogen, or any other fossil-free fuel like e-fuels (i.e. e-methanol, e-diesel, e-methane) or bio-fuels (i.e. bio-methanol, ethanol, or bio-diesel). Media and More Green biofuels: A proven fuel for gas turbines As we move away from fossil fuels, green fuel alternatives are needed to balance the volat... Read more Modification of gas turbine fleets for a more sustainable future The 'hydrogen economy' looks at changing the hydrocarbon-based infrastructure and running ... Read more Green for ‘go’ on hydrogen turbines How a research project is paving the way for hydrogen-based energy systems. By Aasa Lyckst... Read more ZEHTC at Finspång – four things we’ve learnt When we set up our Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center (ZEHTC) just over three years ago, our main research goals were to gain more expertise on the added value of hydrogen gas turbines and energy storage for a sustainable energy system... Read more Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center at Finspång The Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center is a demonstration plant for a flexible and sustainable energy system. It combines gas turbines with a photovoltaic field, an electrolyser, hydrogen, and batteries for energy storage Read more References and Use Cases Climate-neutral energy supply for Leipzig H₂-ready gas turbines for Stadtwerke Leipzig, Germany 2 x SGT-800 gas turbines for a new district heating plant Successive conversion to 100% hydrogen operation Learn more Media and More June 30, 2021 6 min read Modeling net zero October 1, 2021 6 min read Into the clean hydrogen frontier See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025