LIFE OCEAN Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Fuel cell and methanol reforming system for clean energy on board The LIFE OCEAN project is the first project which aims to use a carbon-neutral fuel for electric energy production on a Sanlorenzo superyacht Transition towards carbon-neutral mobility in the maritime sector The maritime sector represents about 13.5% the total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at EU level (Source: EEA, 2021 ). In order to foster decarbonization of fuels in the maritime sector, the IMO fixed a target of 80% cut of GHG emissions until 2050 and cut of 100% until 2100. The path towards decarbonization of fuels in the maritime sector will also lead to the reduction and/or abatement of pollutants like CO, NOX, SOX, PM, BC, HC that are emitted by fossil fuels combustion. The installation of a methanol reformer coupled to a HTPEM fuel cell could represent an interesting solution as auxiliary power unit of yachts and superyachts, to cover the hotel load but also to sustain slow speed cruising and maneuvering operations in ports. New solutions to reduce the environmental impact of the shipping industry Aim of the LIFE OCEAN ( o nboard c lean e nergy a nd n o-noise) project is to substitute the traditional diesel generators used to cover the hotel loads of a Sanlorenzo superyacht with a methanol-based fuel cell system. Along with air pollution mitigation, on board noise will be abated while underwater noise will be reduced thanks to the elimination of diesel generators. The solution adopted constitutes a zero-carbon technology for the maritime sector, adopting green methanol whose large capacity production is growing at both EU and extra-EU level. The concept Why using green methanol? Instead of methanol the project will foster the adoption of green methanol (methanol produced by renewable sources, i.e. from agricultural and forestry residues, biogas, organic fraction of municipal solid wastes, synthesis of H2 produced from electrolytic processes and CO2 coming from carbon capture technologies). Furthermore, methanol is easy to store and handle, it is biodegradable and does not contain sulphur. It is liquid at environmental temperature and pressure, it presents a good energy density (around 22 MJ/kg) and does not need cryogenic tanks for its storage like LNG. Methanol + Water 1. Step First, the sustainable produced methanol needs to be mixed with water to enable the electrochemical reaction in the reformer. To safe space, weight and hence energy on the vessel it is our goal to find a solution to reuse the water produced in the fuel cell instead of installing a water tank. Resulting in an onboard water cycle and savings of this valuable resource. Reformer 2. Step The Methanol-Water-Mix is heated in the reformer. In the process called steam reforming, hydrogen is released. Hydrogen 3. Step The hydrogen can now be used in many ways. E.g., as an admixture to natural gas in steam turbines or as here in a HTPEM fuel cell. Fuel Cell 4. Step In the HTPEM fuel cell the hydrogen reacts highly efficient, silent and with little waste heat with air to purest water. Electricity 5. Step This produces electrical energy, which is used in this project to supply electricity to a superyacht. What are the advantages of using the mFC system? Air Reducing emissions of pollutants to air and improvement of air quality. Noise No noise on board and reduction of underwater noise. Circular Economy Reduction of resources consumption, recovery of resources from waste after the disposal phase and use of resources with a circular economy approach. Water Preservation of water quality and no discharge into seawater. Impact Energy savings Reduction in primary energy use for the typical use profile of only one yacht per year SOx, NOx, PM, HC, CO Reduction in use of carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances GHG emissions Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions “ We are establishing an important milestone in decarbonising the maritime industry, paving the way for the widespread adoption of this technology across other types of vessels. Our fuel cell system will reduce air pollution and significantly decrease both onboard and underwater noise, as unlike diesel generators, there are no moving parts that create noise or vibrations. The solution constitutes a carbon neutral technology for the maritime sector. Markus Wagner Siemens Energy, Project Manager of LIFE OCEAN Coming up next Date Activities 08/22 Project start 01/23 Participation at the boot Düsseldorf fair 01/24 Integration of the mFC system on board 07/25 Project end Collaboration LIFE OCEAN project is part of the LIFE programs, the EU’s funding instrument for the environment and climate action Development and deployment of the super-yacht Installation of the mFC system for clean energy production “Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or CINEA. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.” Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025