Annual Press Conference 2024 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Annual Press Conference 2024 November 13, 2024 Munich We released our financial results for the fiscal year 2024 on November 13, 2024, at 07:00 AM CET. The press conference will be broadcasted live at 08:00 a.m. CET. Join the webcast Earnings Release Earnings Release Q4 FY 2024: Siemens Energy achieves all annual goals and sets new targets for 2028 Presentation Siemens Energy achieves all annual goals and sets new targets for 2028 Press Release Siemens Energy achieves all annual goals and sets new targets for 2028 Siemens Energy TV-Footage You can download the TV-footage here Download A description of the scenes and time codes can be found here. Press pictures Christian Bruch President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens Energy AG Press pictures Biography Maria Ferraro Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Energy AG Press pictures Biography Contact Tim Proll-Gerwe Head of Media Relations tim.proll-gerwe@siemens-energy.com +49 152 2283-5652 Contact Oliver Sachgau Press Spokesperson Finance oliver.sachgau@siemens-energy.com +49 173 2729231 Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 98,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025