Siemens Energy Electronic Invoicing Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Electronic Invoicing Siemens Energy is executing on its Vision. A major focus of this Vision is the strategy of digitalization across all parts of our business. Digitalization is fundamentally transforming the value chain and offers major opportunities for all parties. It helps us automate order processing, achieve speed, end-to-end visibility, remove manual errors and improve quality and efficiency. Digitalization is not just a project, for us it has become a part of our strategy. The Automate Purchase to Pay Program consists of several digitalization initiatives aiming to bring automation of work processes, more transparency, work efficiency and removal of many manual task. What is E-Invoicing The E-Invoicing project aims at the electronic invoice exchange between Siemens Energy and it’s supplier community & suppliers. It thereby completes the automated Purchase-to-Pay process by automating the invoice receipt, processing and booking via one of the proven Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) platforms such as SupplyOn. Using such platform allows upfront check of invoices, minimizing the risk of invoice rejection and maximizing the timely processing and finally payment of invoices addressed to Siemens Energy. What are the benefits of E-Invoicing Transparent processes Reduced manual effort Higher efficiency On-time payments for our Suppliers Increased data entry quality Compliance and process security E-Invoicing channel options CSV PDF (95 KB) Download EDI PDF (93 KB) Download PDF Mapping PDF (94 KB) Download WebUI PDF (95 KB) Download Training materials Training materials for SupplyOn and PDF mapping can be found below. SupplyOn free of charge training SupplyOn individual Training requests – additional fee required PDF Mapping Training – mapping structured invoice content via SupplyOn (duration 2:17 min) Frequently Asked Questions Get your questions answered Questions How does SupplyOn support electronic invoicing? SupplyOn supports invoicing by: Transferring data automatically from previous purchase orders to invoices (PO flip). Checking the invoice data before the invoice is sent to Siemens Energy. The invoicing process can be outlined as follows: Most of the invoice data is taken automatically from a purchase order and the available delivery schedules from the system. Only a small subset of data, for example tax information, has to be added manually. Alternatively, the invoice data can also be exported and uploaded from your own system. The invoice data is validated and checked for correctness. Errors are reported in order to ensure that only valid invoices are transferred to Siemens Energy. Additional process steps, such as inclusion of a digital signature, are performed if necessary. Are electronic invoices secure? Sending electronic invoices is much more secure than using the conventional method. SupplyOn offers a secure system, which uses the most modern methods of user authentication, encryption and, if necessary, digital signature. The documents are sent in encrypted form, to ensure that the data cannot be read by any third parties. Only authorized users can access the documents. Siemens Energy has not received my invoice. What can I do? Please contact our Customer Support ( customer-support@supplyon.com ) providing the invoice number and the invoice date. Can I generate the invoice in my ERP system and send it to Siemens Energy via SupplyOn? Yes, the invoice can be generated in the internal system and sent to Siemens Energy via SupplyOn. The invoice data can either be uploaded in CSV format. In case of direct integration via EDI, the data can also be exchanged in EDIFACT format. Under special cases, you also have the option of sending PDF invoices to SupplyOn by e-mail. Please contact us via electronic.invoice@siemens-energy.com for more information. Who is responsible for the accuracy of the electronic invoice? Responsibility for the accuracy of the invoice lies with the invoicing party (supplier). Is an electronic invoice recognized under tax law? Within the EU, electronic invoices are treated in the same way as paper invoices. Outside of the EU, special country specific requirements may exist for electronic invoices, which you can request from your financial authorities. Contact Information & Useful Resources Siemens Energy Email Address: SON-SE@siemens-energy.com SupplyOn Resources SupplyOn production system SupplyOn customer support ( email and contact information portal ) SupplyOn Info Portal for Siemens Energy Suppliers Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025