Siemens Energy supplies HVDC technology for the first electricity link between Germany and Belgium Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy supplies HVDC technology for the first electricity link between Germany and Belgium Press release November 9, 2020 Munich Interconnector ALEGrO officially commissioned Siemens Energy’s HVDC PLUS technology enables transmission of 1,000 MW electricity Opening with German and Belgian dignitaries Transmission system operators Amprion (Germany) and Elia Group (Belgium) today officially commissioned the Aachen Liège Electricity Grid Overlay (ALEGrO) interconnector, the first power bridge between Germany and Belgium. Using high voltage direct current (HVDC) technology by Siemens Energy, ALEGrO is capable of carrying around 1,000 megawatts (MW) of power. The 90 kilometers long link provides urgently needed grid capacities for cross-border electricity flows including higher shares of renewable energy. On the same time, ALEGrO will strengthen the security of supply in the German Aachen-Cologne region. The converter station in Lixhe in Belgium is one of the two converter stations Siemens Energy supplied for the ALEGrO interconnector. Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy, said: “Thanks to the excellent collaboration between Elia, Amprion, Siemens Energy and all partners another landmark project on time and budget could come to fruition. I am proud that our proven HVDC PLUS technology contributes to a greener, more reliable and powerful European electricity network.” Dr. Hans-Jürgen Brick, CEO of Amprion GmbH, said: “ALEGrO is a central electricity bridge in the heart of Europe, which couples the internal electricity market even more intensively. At the same time, the project is a prime example of European cooperation and an important further building block for a secure European transmission network. " Marcus Berger, Chief Infrastructure Officer Elia, said: “We really appreciate the professional approach that Siemens has demonstrated in the realization of this project. Not only during the construction but also during the commissioning phase. Last week, for example, our teams realised a world’s first by carrying out a so-called black start operation via ALEGrO. Should Belgium ever be hit by a blackout, the interconnector can be used to re-feed the Belgian grid from Germany. This also works in the opposite direction. By bringing this project to a successful conclusion, our teams have shown once again their technical leadership.” From the left to the right: Tinne Van der Straeten, Belgian minister of Energy, Chris Peeters, CEO Elia Group, Dr. Klaus Kleinekorte, CTO Amprion, and Armin Laschet, minister president of North Rhine-Westphalia Siemens Energy supplied the two converter stations at each end of the line that convert the alternating current to direct current and vice versa. The stations have been erected in Oberzier in Germany and Lixhe in Belgium and are connected by an underground DC cable. Equipped with HVDC PLUS technology based on modular multilevel converters (MMC), the system offers a controlled power supply in either direction and is ideal as a “firewall” against disturbances developing in highly loaded AC grids. Armin Laschet, minister president of North Rhine-Westphalia, Tinne Van der Straeten, Belgian minister of Energy, and Sibylle Keupen, Lady Mayoress of the City of Aachen, took part at the symbolic commissioning of ALEGrO and underlined the importance of the project for the European electricity market. The European Commission designated ALEGrO a “project of common interest” as it contributes to an integrated European energy market. Siemens Energy is currently realizing 12 HVDC projects worldwide and can look back on more than 55 completed projects. The technology is playing an increasingly important role in integrating renewable energy and thus in global decarbonization. Further information on Siemens Energy’s HVDC technology at Power Transmission: HVDC PLUS Contact Media relations Siemens Energy mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (151 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in fiscal year 2019. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025