Dry Gas Seals Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Dry Gas Seals Increase efficiency, reliability and sustainability Our goal is to minimize your ongoing wet oil seal costs, unscheduled downtime and resulting productivity losses. Currently, there are thousands of centrifugal compressors installed globally that predate advanced Dry Gas Seal (DGS) technology and run with wet oil seals, which require costly maintenance and cause parasitic power losses due to oil shear and drag. Contact us about Dry Gas Seals Product overview The Dry Gas Seals employed in our centrifugal compressors represent a significant advance in shaft sealing. This state-of-the-art solution will help by eliminating the ongoing maintenance costs associated with wet oil seals and thereby greatly increases equipment reliability and efficiency. The design of the Dry Gas Seal ensures best overall compressor performance as well as emission reduction for increased sustainability. Features and benefits Technical design and improvements Applicability Why choose Siemens Energy Dry Gas Seals? Cost reduction and productivity increase through depletion of unscheduled shutdowns Ability to conduct rotor dynamics studies to increase rotor stability State-of-the-art-design which allows for hassle-free installation Elimination of seal oil consumption, leakages and contamination and other ongoing associated maintenance costs Global Siemens Energy network of service centers, providing you a single point of contact for compressor maintenance and troubleshooting Seal and compressor design from a single source ensuring best overall compressor performance API 692 compliant The heart of the DGS is a pair of rings. A stationary ring is held against a rotating ring by spring pressure. The contact face of the rotating ring incorporates special fil-riding geometries in the form of groves or tapered lands on the outer portion. DGS designs: Patented bi-directional groove design Patented rotating seat centering Liquid Phase Sintered Silicon Carbide In-house Theoretical Gas Film Modeling Single DGS - for restrictive applications Double DGS - for lower pressure applications where zero emissions are a must Tandem DGS - When a lower emission and high-pressure tolerant solution is needed (optional without intermediate labyrinth) Carbon Ring Separation Seal - for protecting Dry Gas Seals from bearing oil ingress Carbon Ring Process Seal - for minimizing clean gas flow and for maintaining clean process side environment Siemens Energy, as the compressor OEM, is best suited to provide a sealing solution that ensures the best overall compressor performance and maintenance, from a single source. Applicable to all OEM and non-OEM centrifugal compressors. A dry approach to centrifugal compressor emissions mitigation Dry gas seal retrofits, recompression help legacy compressors comply with current, future regulations. Read the article Seal Protect - a reliable, cost-effective sealing solution for your centrifugal compressor Our innovative sealing solution eliminates the need for a seal gas booster, protects dry gas seals from contamination, reduces maintenance and downtime costs. Seal Protect sits between the dry gas seal and process side seal, remaining open during operation to prevent contamination. In static or low-speed conditions, it ensures only clean, dry process gas reaches the Dry Gas Seal. Benefits of Seal Protect include: Increased reliability: Our simplified design reduces component failure risk. Reduced cost: With lower operational and maintenance costs. Minimized footprint: Our system can replace the seal gas booster, saving space. Lower emissions: Seal Protect uses less power, reducing emissions. Seal Protect is compatible with most new compressor packages and can be retrofitted into existing units for improved reliability. Download Flyer Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025