A material necessity:  securing the supply chain Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications A material necessity:  securing the energy supply chain We’ve taken the steps to secure the materials needed Rising costs, changing circumstances Expanding renewable energy requires huge quantities of minerals and raw materials. Power generation units now need 50% more minerals than in 2010. The pandemic and the war in Ukraine have also pushed up the price of raw materials. Making progress with our partners During the energy crisis largely precipitated by the war in Ukraine, we were able to almost offset the rise in raw material prices in many areas. We will continue to work on reducing to a minimum the number of suppliers where there is a risk of disruption. “ Procurement's major shifts, fueled by demand for resilience, sustainability, growth enablement and new technologies, provide a competitive edge to organizations that can address these challenges. Juha Pankakoski Executive Vice President, Global Functions Specific challenges and solutions In an uncertain world, it is vital that we diversify our supply chains and reduce our dependency on any particular source of raw materials. Our strategy involves: The regionalization and expansion of supply chains. Securing availability and prices through long-term contracts. Energy transition targets Every supply chain has an objective.  Our focus on the supply chain has two: To make it more resilient by increasing levels of sustainability, transparency and accountability Reduce dependencies by diversifying our supply chains. We at Siemens Energy pursues a strategy of regionalization and expansion of supply chains Recognizing and rating the risks The Siemens Energy sustainability risk analysis system continuously identifies potential risks in the supply chain, using information from internationally recognized organizations. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025