Manufacturing career in gas turbines Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career by Susanne Weissmann Career Gas turbines Mathew Birkhead is testing gas turbines in Sweden for projects in the whole world. "Jump in with both feet" – that's the mantra that has guided him from the shores of New Zealand to the cutting-edge facilities of Siemens Energy in Finspång, Sweden. Mathew's manufacturing career is a testament to his adventurous spirit and unwavering commitment to making a difference. "Every day is different," says Mathew Birkhead, as he meticulously checks the control systems of a gas turbine . "We in manufacturing engineering test pressure, level, and valves to ensure everything is perfect before the turbines are deployed." This dynamic and challenging environment is where Mathew thrives, drawing on his extensive experience and technical skills. From his early days as an electrician in New Zealand to his current role testing gas turbines for projects around the world, Mathew's story is one of resilience, growth, and a deep passion for innovation. His career took off when he obtained an ancestry visa for the UK, leading him to work as an industrial electrician in London's railway sector. However, Mathew's insatiable curiosity and love for exploration saw him traveling to around 60 countries and working in diverse environments, including offshore oil and gas in Australia, Saudi Arabia, and Scotland. Explore jobs What brought him to Sweden Mathew's journey to Sweden was not without its challenges. Navigating a new system and learning a new language were significant hurdles. "It's a difficult system to navigate. I'm not speaking Swedish so well, I'm still learning," Mathew admitted. However, the strong support from his managers and team made the transition smoother. His manager, Johanna, played a crucial role in providing both professional and personal support. "If I start talking about work, my manager Johanna said, 'No, no, no, how was it at home? Are there any problems, anything?' She provides the team with all the tools we need to succeed," Mathew noted. Johanna's leadership style is characterized by her genuine care for her team, both professionally and personally. "She helps to solve work problems and listens to personal issues. She really cares," Mathew added. After a year as an electrician, Mathew transitioned to the role of commissioning engineer, a position he finds both challenging and rewarding. "I get to use the skills that I've applied over this long career. It's always at the latest technology," he explained. His responsibilities include testing turbines as part of the factory acceptance test, ensuring everything is set before the turbines are deployed to sites, like the new district heating power plant in Leipzig, Germany. “I mean obviously coming from abroad myself, knowing that the turbines are going all over the world, that’s great.” Support at two o'clock in the morning Mathew recounted a heartwarming incident, "When I mentioned in the lunchroom that I might need help if my car breaks down, someone immediately said, 'You can call me, even at two o'clock in the morning.' It's really refreshing to hear." Mathew Birkhead and his colleagues in Finspang, Sweden, manufacture the future with the SGT-800 gas turbines. Career opportunities for growth and development Former managers supported Mathew in his professional growth: “They would never hold anybody back from furthering their career”. Mathew himself has benefited from numerous training opportunities, moving from an electrician to a commissioning engineer, and now to a test leader. "There's always internal positions opening up, so career development is really good," he said. The flexible working arrangements play a crucial role in Mathew's work-life balance. As a father, he appreciates the ability to adjust his schedule to accommodate his daughter's needs. "If I need to come late or leave early, no questions asked. The support from my manager is always there," he shared. Discover more about working with Siemens Energy. Becoming a father, job security is key For four years Mathew has lived in Norrköping and worked with Siemens Energy - was it the right decision? Mathew is clear: "Just do it. Jump in with both feet. If you're looking for a good team environment with experienced people willing to share their knowledge and mentor you, apply. Just do it." Mathew has always taken advantage of the opportunities that life has given him. Job security? He never really thought about these things in the past. “But now I'm a father, I really want to make sure that I'm secure and able to support my daughter.” “ For me it's all about the team. Knowing that I have their back, they have my back. If I don't know something, someone else is going to help. Mathew Birkhead Commissioning engineer at Siemens Energy Are gas turbines some kind of robots? Mathew explained to his daughter, that he is working on gas turbines. “She seems to think it's some kind of robot”, he says with a laugh. Even if she is not understanding now, Mathew is proud to be part of Siemens Energy's efforts towards a more resilient and cleaner energy supply.  "It's nice to know that we are making a small difference. Siemens Energy is right up there at the front, leading the way," he said. This sense of purpose is something Mathew carries with him, especially when thinking about the future for his daughter. "Being a father, I want to make sure that we're leaving a good earth for her when she's older," he reflected. Mathew Birkhead is working in Finspang as manufacturing engineer. He is testing SGT-800 gas turbines. Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Read more March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” January 6, 2025 3 min read Creating colorful new traditions at Siemens Energy See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025