Reference TE-TO Osijek Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive Control systems Reference Electrical systems Our energy saving solution for the TE-TO Osijek thermal power plant in Croatia provided increased reliability, significant energy efficiency and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. Contact us “ By implementing the variable speed drive from Siemens Energy we could realize enormous energy savings and reduce CO2 emissions. Mario Iličić HEP Proizvodnja d.o.o., TE-TO Osijek The customer challenge: Enhancing central heating reliability The TE-TO Osijek power station, a combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Croatia, faced a critical challenge. Specifically, the management of three hot water circulation pumps within the central heating system proved to be unreliable due to frequent breakdowns and difficult maintenance. Downtime and repairs led to increased costs and operational inefficiencies. By using frequency-regulated electric motor drives in thermal power plants, significant energy savings can be achieved at the same time carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced. In addition to the above generally accepted practice of replacing part of unregulated electric drives with regulated ones, there is also a tendency to replace old engines with low energy utilization by high efficient modern engines with a high energy class often classified according to IEC standards. The customer Hrvatska elektroprivreda d.d. (HEP Group) decided to install one frequency regulated electric motor operation of the circulation pump in the central heating system of the city of Osijek to enhance plant reliability and reduce maintenance burdens. The solution:  Reliable pumps, reduced costs We stepped in to address the challenge. After assessing the theoretical savings potential and conducting an on-site analysis of TE-TO Osijek’s entire drive train, we devised a concrete optimization concept. The obsolete and inefficient hardware was replaced, and a high-quality variable speed drive was implemented. This solution not only improved reliability but also achieved significant energy savings. We ensured a seamless replacement process, from project planning to commissioning, and continued to provide ongoing service support. Find out more about the products and services applied: Energy saving solutions The benefits: Reduced CO2 emissions and cost savings Energy savings of 2,289 MWh in just three heating periods Reduced CO2 emissions of 800 - 1200 tones per season of central heating Increased operational reliability of the electric drive of the hot water pumps and the entire hot water system Return on Investment in just 4 years Contact us With various successful energy saving projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us About TE-TO Osijek The TE-TO Osijek power station is a combined heat and power (CHP) plant located in the eastern part of the city of Osijek, Croatia. Owned by Hrvatska elektroprivreda d.d. (HEP Group), the national energy company, this facility has been serving the region for over a century. The plant plays a crucial role in both electricity generation for the power system and thermal energy production for heating the city and supplying industrial processes with technological steam. With multiple units producing at least 95 megawatts of electricity, TE-TO Osijek contributes significantly to the region’s energy needs. Read more 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025