Grid ancilliary solutions (Omnivise electrical solutions) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Grid ancillary solutions Modern energy systems are being impacted by the reduction of nuclear and fossil power generation as well as the increase of renewable power generation. These factors can cause stability problems in the HV-grid (reduction of short circuit power/ inertia and voltage dip stability) which might result in a blackout. In order to prevent this, power stations with black start capabilities are required, while synchronous condensers can supply power during short circuits, and ensure permanent dynamic voltage and reactive power control. Synchronous condenser A synchronous condenser is a generator without a prime mover from a gas or steam turbine. It stabilizes the grid in changing reactive power demands. The rotating mass and the dynamic generation of reactive power stands for the high advantages of this product. The main benefits of a synchronous condenser are frequency stabilization and power supply during short circuits. Any existing power plant generator type can be converted into a synchronous condenser. It can supply the grid with short circuit power and ensure permanent dynamic voltage and reactive power control. Synchronous condensers are designed to stabilize frequency and maintain voltage even over long distances. They can generate electricity during dynamic peak demands and are able to build up the grid after a black-out. The project time for converting a plant is usually less than 12 months. The solution allows the use of existing assets and offers a very short return on investment (ROI). Download the flyer Stabilize the grid in changing reactive power demands Your benefits Minimum costs due to re-use of the existing generator and relevant auxiliary systems. Written-off assets can be reactivated. Extended lifetime of a power plant generates additional revenue. Decreased risk of blackouts as grid is in an optimum range of operation Black start and black grid restoration Black start capabilities can be built by using an independent power source to restore the plant's auxiliary systems without an external source of supply. Suitable technologies are: Small open cycle turbines Gas engine generators Diesel generators Batteries and hybrid solutions The process begins with a feasibility study in which the main generator capabilities and grid requirements are assessed. The next steps include integrating the new power source into the plant and making necessary modifications to the existing installation. Download the flyer Technical benefits Availability to start-up the power plant without an external power supply Capability to help restore power to a national grid in the event of a total or partial shutdown Provision of start-up power to other power stations as the system restoration progresses Commercial benefits Additional revenues received directly from the TSOs can help increase plant profitability through additional functionality and revenue opportunities and avoid the closing down of the plant Avoidance of huge production losses due to blackouts and equipment being unavailable Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our products. If you have any questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Omnivise Electrical Solutions Read more Omnivise Digital Solutions Redefining energy – together Read more Read more 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025