A young professional’s insights: from learner to leader Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications August 9, 2024 4 min read A young professional’s path to leadership by Anke Streithof Career Woman People Talents Meet Stefanie Dirrigl, Head of Pricing at our Grid Technologies Sales department, who will give us insight into her day-to-day as a young professional and tell us about the important nexus of energy transition that she works with us on. After a backpacking trip around Southeast Asia, Stefanie started her personal journey with us as a driven young professional by enrolling in a dual study program. “I wanted to gain hands-on experience while learning,” she says. And it shows. Following various assignments during her studies, she learned how different departments and fields are interconnected. In her final assignment, she joined the transmission sector, where she gained knowledge about switchgear offer management and business development. Consequently, she began specializing in the field of switchgear solutions , a topic that would prove to be one of her biggest drivers. Needless to say, the way she shares her story with us highlights a particular main topic: her passion for people and leadership. Stefanie’s leadership journey Talking about steering her personal course with Team Purple, she reveals, “In the beginning, I worked as a commercial offer manager. Gradually, I took on more responsibilities from that perspective, particularly focusing on the offshore and wind businesses. I also very much enjoyed the task of being a buddy when new team members joined. My first leadership role was as a technical sales expert, where I was responsible for the sales of switchgear across Europe and Africa. Last October, we underwent an internal reorganization, which led to my current role. NowI am tasked with building a pricing department for Grid Technology business area. Sure, it’s a massive responsibility, but it’s also very rewarding and an incredible opportunity.” Moreover, Stefanie’s personal impact is very important to her. Practical and motivational inspiration go hand-in-hand with a sustainability-minded way of working. Visibly so, as Stefanie and her team aim for setting a cornerstone. As we inquire about her biggest achievements so far, she explains in more detail how everything’s inseparably connected: digitalization within the company portfolio, future-forward technologies such as artificial intelligence, and the common quest for net zero. Her team's purpose is to enable intelligent selling through analytical innovation and data-driven value creation. “One memorable project that stands out is the pricing dashboard we’re currently developing. It's a smart tool that takes data from our CRM system to understand past, present, and future price developments, to create price transparency. It’s still vivid in my mind because just last week, we presented it to upper management. I felt like they acknowledged that we’re forming the pillars for future impact,” she goes on. Applying leadership skills to grow yourself and others In order to follow a path as ambitious as the one #TeamPurple is on, it’s vital to explore what each individual at the company can bring to the table. “In my previous role, I was part of negotiating several contracts; the biggest to date was a significant framework agreement,” she concludes, “I had the opportunity to learn a lot through doing myself and from amazingly experienced people.” Especially when it comes to Siemens Energy’s blue product portfolio , we learn that Stefanie was responsible for a range of solutions that further net-zero technology. This goes way beyond the elimination of F-gases alone; the goal has to be zero reduction in performance, too. “I can identify very well with our blue product portfolio in the offshore and wind business. The topic of sustainable energy transition is very close to my heart, as I am passionate about it and the impact it can potentially have on society,” she highlights. Supporting the team’s growth mindset “Team Purple has a special place in my heart. We share a passion for our work and believe that our collective efforts are essential to achieving our goals. Besides, HR-wise and interpersonally alike, I feel like we’re on the right track. It’s usually the people you bond with. They will motivate you to go to the office in times of remote work, I like that very much, it contributes to my work-life balance, too” she says. While she alludes to flexible working hours and options for remote work, she explains her perspective in more detail: “The people I work with are truly inspiring. They’re all real pros in their distinctive fields. There’s a lot to learn from that when you start off, when you arrive somewhere fresh out of university. There are so many colleagues who are open and willing to engage in meaningful conversations, that just makes all the difference. We support each other, we’re assigned mentors and are given the freedom to explore and innovate. I believe the most contemporary of our soft benefits to be an allowance for failure. This fosters a safe environment for growth and creativity. Furthermore, I believe that there is nothing more rewarding than achieving results and mastering milestones together as a team. This is also a great incubator for scaling these results further across the whole organisation.” “ We have mentors to support us, and everyone's voice matters. Stefanie Dirrigl Head of Pricing at Grid Technologies Sales, Siemens Energy Leadership in action In addition to leadership practices she experienced during her study program, which prepared her well, Stefanie understands that active listening and empathetic coaching are instrumental for great teambuilding. In her opinion, it's all about empowering the team, giving them responsibilities, and—as she has experienced several times—being thrown into the cold water while knowing that the leader will always be there to support and have their back if necessary. She also underlines the fact that she aims to be in the office frequently to maximize collaboration and networking: “If leadership is what we want to stand for, it has to be right there. Inherently, immersively, and mirroring honesty and curiosity on a personal level. The spirit of leadership has to be tangible in everything you do. This kind of motivation really is fun.” Ready to come on board? Read more March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? February 10, 2025 5 min read Project management in gas services January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025