Egypt’s First Graduates of the Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP) Ready to Enter Workforce Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Egypt’s First Graduates of the Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP) Ready to Enter Workforce Press release June 28, 2021 Cairo TIP graduates complete fully funded 9-month certification program Graduates are now “Master Trainers” in vocational training The Egyptian German Technical Academy (EGT Academy) graduated its first group of Certified Master Trainers from the Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP). This programme is part of the Strategic Alliance between Siemens Energy in Egypt and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit- (GIZ) Egypt, implemented on behalf of the German Government in the framework of its commitment to Egypt’s economic development. The fully funded Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP) took place at EGT Academy, a state-of-the-art training hub for vocational training in the region located in Ain Sokhna. Over the past nine months, ten young talents from the Egyptian industry and academia, who had the required hands-on experience, were trained to become master trainers in the Egyptian market. “We all have a responsibility to support our country’s social and economic growth and occupational education is definitely a major pillar in this respect. This group graduating today is only the beginning,” said Emad Ghaly, Managing Director of Siemens Energy in Egypt. “I am proud that Siemens Energy is part of this initiative that will enable Egyptian youth to create a better future for themselves, their communities and the Egyptian society.” “With the comprehensive approach of modernised equipment and tailored training modules at EGT Academy, along with improved hands-on training, this level of vocational education and training will create opportunities and drive development policy initiatives to better the social and economic prospects of the Egyptian people in line with Egypt Vision 2030.” said Andreas Adrian – Cluster Coordinator for Technical Education and Labour Market Development (TELM)- GIZ Egypt. The training was conducted in partnership with Industrie Handelskammer (IHK) and covered the context and scope of providing vocational education and training; curriculum development and course design; technical training and quality management, among other subjects. It concluded with the development of a complete 40h course (including logbook, time tabling, development of lessons, exercises, and exams corresponding to learning outcomes as well as teaching materials) for technicians, advanced students, graduates, technical faculties from local universities in Egypt. Links Further information on topic Contact Mariam Arsanios Siemens Energy mariam.arsanios@siemens-energy.com 01006078437 Contact Hana Amin GIZ Egypt hana.amin@giz.de +201006692733 Download Press Release PDF Download (EN) PDF (104 KB) Download PDF Download (AR) PDF (149 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH is a service provider in the field of international cooperation for sustainable development. Operating in Egypt since 1956, GIZ provides technical expertise, develops capacities, and delivers effective solutions in close partnership with local governmental and non-governmental organizations. GIZ supports Egypt in its efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Strategy: Egypt Vision 2030 to create better social and economic prospects for the Egyptian people. On behalf of the German Government, the European Union, and other parties, GIZ implements projects in all parts of Egypt in the following areas of cooperation: Energy, Water, Urban Development, Sustainable Economic Development and Governance. https://www.giz.de/en/worldwide/319.html Read more Read less Read more March 12, 2025 Dammam Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply April 2, 2024 Dubai Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa June 29, 2021 Riyadh Siemens Energy to power Saudi housing megaproject See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025