Ramping up renewable energy: Siemens Energy connects Italys largest islands to the mainland Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Ramping up renewable energy: Siemens Energy connects Italy's largest islands to the mainland Press release March 28, 2023 Berlin HVDC link between mainland Italy, Sicily and Sardinia enables exchange of up tp one gigawatt for each interconnection Improved efficiency, security of supply and better integration of renewable energy For Italy to benefit from renewable energy in the future, the islands of Sardinia, Sicily and the Italian mainland must be able to flexibly exchange electricity. Siemens Energy will make this possible by providing the high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology to a 970 km long power link. Italian transmission system operator Terna has awarded the consortium of Siemens Energy and Italy's FATA (part of Danieli group) a contract to supply four converter stations for the "Tyrrhenian Link" project. The HVDC link will enable more efficient use of renewable energy, increase stability of the power grids, and enable the close down of coal-fired power plants on the two islands to reduce CO 2 emissions. The order volume for Siemens Energy amounts to just under one billion euros. "The expansion of power grids must receive the same attention as the expansion of renewable energies," says Tim Holt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy. "Italy has excellent conditions for renewable power generation. The project will ensure that the regions involved can also derive the best possible economic benefits from this and help Italy achieve a more sustainable and secure power supply." To meet the EU’s Fit-for-55 targets by 2030, it will be necessary to install in Italy 70 gigawatts of new renewable energy capacity to reach at least 65 percent share in gross electricity consumptions. Interconnecting Italy's largest islands and the mainland will make it possible to flexibly transport green energy to where it is needed. Tyrrhenian Link is Siemens Energy's first HVDC project in Italy. The energy technology company will build four converter stations at the respective end points of the two sections of the link: The East Section of the link connects Campania on the Italian mainland with Sicily, while the West Section connects Sicily with Sardinia. The stations convert alternating current fed from the respective local grid into direct current for transport via undersea cables. The station at the other end of the line converts the electricity back into alternating current so that it can be fed back into the regional grid. In this way, a total of up to one gigawatt of green power for each interconnection can be efficiently transported over the long distances at a DC voltage of 500 kilovolts. Siemens Energy will manufacture the main components of the four stations, such as the converter technology, transformers, and switchgear, in Europe. Consortium partner FATA, in sub-consortium with Italian construction companies Impresa Manca Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. and Pizzulo Costruzioni s.r.l., will be responsible for the civil works, electromechanical installation, construction of ancillary facilities and pre-commissioning support. The completion of construction of the converter stations is scheduled for the end of 2028. Links High-voltage direct current technology Contact Christina Hümmer Siemens Energy christina.huemmer@siemens-energy.com +49 15207158923 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (214 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025