Annual Shareholder's Meeting 2024 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2024 of Siemens Energy AG Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2024 Data protection information Archive Internet Service for Shareholders Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2024 The Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2024 of Siemens Energy AG was held on Monday, February 26, 2024, 10:00 a.m. (CET) , as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without the physical attendance of shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). The next Annual General Meeting of Siemens Energy AG will be held in February 2025. Documents Internet Service & invitation via email Live Webcast Documents Annual Shareholders ' Meeting 2024 Voting Results The speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, can be seen here in English or in sign language . Press release Corporate Governance Roadshow presentation Speeches for opening of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2024 by Joe Kaeser - Chairman of the Supervisory Board - and by Dr. Christian Bruch - President and Chief Executive Officer (published on February 21, 2024) Notice of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2024 (incl. agenda) Sample Attendance Notification form Shareholder Counterproposals and Election Nominations (Latest update: February 12, 2024) Information on Shareholders’ Rights Annual Report 2023 including Consolidated Financial Statements for the Siemens Energy Group, together with the Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and the Siemens Energy Group, as of September 30, 2023 (IFRS) (including: Report of the Supervisory Board, Explanatory Report on the information required pursuant to Section 289a, Section 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), Corporate Governance statement including the Corporate Governance reporting, Group Non-Financial Statement) Annual Financial Statements of Siemens Energy AG 2023 (HGB) Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG (as of March 16, 2023) Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding the Internet Service for Shareholders of Siemens Energy AG Recommendations for ideal video communication Terms and Conditions Key dates regarding Annual Shareholders' Meeting Information in accordance with Section 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) in conjunction with Table 3 blocks A to F of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 Document relating to Agenda Item 6 Compensation Report, along with the audit report of the independent auditor, in accordance with Section 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) of Siemens Energy AG for the fiscal year 2022/2023 Document relating to Agenda Item 7 Information on the candidates proposed for election to the Supervisory Board Qualification Matrix Shareholder Representatives (according to election proposal) Announcement change of position of Prof. Grimm Report of the Executive Board on Agenda Item 9 (in accordance with Section 203 (2) in conjunction with Section 186 (4) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)) Report of the Executive Board on Agenda Item 10 (in accordance with Section 221 (4) sentence 2 in conjunction with Section 186 (4) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)) Report of the Executive Board on Agenda Item 11 (in accordance with Section 71 (1) no. 8, Section 186 (4) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)) Internet Service for Shareholders of Siemens Energy AG, in particular : Update of registration data for electronic delivery of invitations to future Shareholders’ Meetings Change of address data Notification of attendance for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Absentee voting or appointment of a proxy representative View shareholder statements Right to speak, right to submit proposals and right to obtain information during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting by the way of video communication Declaration of objections to resolutions during the Annual Shareholder’ Meeting Download of confirmations on whether and how votes were counted Watch a live broadcast of the entire Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings For future Shareholders‘ Meetings, you have the option to receive the invitation to the e-mail address you provide for registration instead of by regular mail. Use our Internet Service and help us save paper. You may revoke your consent to electronic delivery at any time. If you have already registered using a self-assigned Access Password, you can use the Internet Service to change your registration data and your postal address stored in the Company's share register throughout the year. In the FAQ document you will find further information on our Internet Service. If you have any questions or problems with the Internet Service , please contact: Tel.: +49 89 207084040 via e-mail: hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de The recording of the opening of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting and the speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, can be seen here in English or in sign language . Information on data protection for Siemens Energy AG shareholders The EU General Data Protection Regulation ascribes great importance to the transparency of data processing. The security of your personal data and protection of your privacy are our utmost priority, which we ensure with state-of-the-art methods for secure data communication. The following is intended to provide you with information on processing of your personal data by Siemens Energy AG and your rights under data protection law. You can obtain more information on data protection in our Privacy Notice . Who is responsible for data processing? The responsible entity is Siemens Energy AG, Otto-Hahn-Ring 6, 81739 Munich, Germany. ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH, Munich, Germany, has been appointed to maintain the share register of Siemens Energy AG. If you have any questions on data protection in the share register, we therefore ask you to contact hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de or the hotline at +49 (0) 89/2070 - 84040. For what purposes and on what legal basis is your data processed? From whom do we obtain your data? When maintaining the share register, we process your data – as we receive it from you, the custodian bank or the central securities depository Clearstream Banking AG, Eschborn, Germany – on the basis of the requirements under stock corporation and capital market law as well as regulatory specifications. Section 67 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) stipulates that registered shares must be entered in the company’s share register along with the name, date of birth and postal as well as e-mail address of the shareholder and the number of shares. In order to clarify any potential ambiguities, the bank submitting the information will also be recorded. We use your personal data for the purposes provided for in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). These purposes include, in particular, maintaining the share register, communicating with you as a shareholder, and staging Shareholders’ Meetings. In the case of structural or capital measures, we must refrain from providing certain shareholders with information on offers owing to their nationality or place of residence, in order to comply with securities legislation in individual countries. In connection with the Shareholders’ Meeting, we process your personal data (register data of the shareholder, the name, address and e-mail address of his/her representative, if applicable, the type of ownership of the shares, absentee votes/voting instructions, and the number of the admission ticket, if applicable) on the basis of prevailing data protection legislation in order to enable you as a shareholder to exercise your rights at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Processing of your personal data is permissible pursuant to Article 6 (1) (c) and (f) of the German Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO), as it is legally required for your participation in the Shareholders’ Meeting and/or cast votes pursuant to the provisions of the German Stock Corporation Law (Section 123 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) in conjunction with Section 14 of the Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG; Section 129 (1) sentence 2 AktG; Section 134 (3) sentence 5 AktG). To which categories of recipients do we pass on your data? We use external service providers and their subcontractors, in each case in the EU, for administration and technical maintenance of the share register (share register service company) and to stage the Shareholders’ Meeting (shareholders’ meeting service provider). Upon the publication of counterproposals, election nominations, statements and election nominations we disclose the name and address of the respective shareholder. Upon exercising a right to declare objections to resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the notary will receive personal data of the shareholder concerned and, if applicable, their proxy representative. Please note that the entire Shareholders’ Meeting will be broadcast on the internet as a livestream, so that all participants in the Shareholders’ Meeting and viewers of the livestream can take note of the name and place of residence and, if applicable, other personal data of shareholders or proxy representatives who exercise a right to speak, submit proposals or right to obtain information (including follow-up questions) at the Shareholders’ Meeting. During the Shareholders' Meeting, shareholders and their proxy representatives may view the list of attendance. How long do we store your data? As a matter of principle, we render your personal data anonymous and delete it as soon as it is no longer deemed necessary for the above-mentioned purposes, insofar as statutory documentation and storage obligations (for example in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), German Commercial Code (HGB), German Fiscal Code (AO)) are not applicable. What are your rights as a data subject? At the address stated above, you can obtain information on and access to the data about you that we have stored. If certain requirements are met, you also have the right to demand that your data be rectified or erased or that processing of it be restricted (for instance, if your data is processed unlawfully). Who can I contact with questions about data protection? You can contact the Data Privacy Officer via the email address stated in our Privacy Notice or the responsible data protection supervisory authority. The data protection supervisory authority responsible for Siemens Energy AG is: Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzaufsicht (Bavarian Data Protection Authority), Promenade 27, 91522 Ansbach, Germany, https://www.lda.bayern.de/en/contact.html Deutsche Version Stay in Touch Energy Transition Actions​ Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Secure supply chains Products and Services Industries Use cases Products Services Trainings Company About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Careers Press Investor relations Supplier Contact Reporting Channels Corporate information Privacy notice Cookie notice Terms of Use Encrypted Communication Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025