Ventures Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Ventures Energizing society through building, investing and supporting start-ups Who we are Siemens Energy Ventures is the entrepreneurial heart of Siemens Energy. Founded in 2020, our focus is on investing, building and piloting ventures that will transform energy systems and will help fight climate change. Providing sustainable, reliable and affordable energy for all is how we energize society. Energy is our global lifeblood; powering homes, operating transport systems, run our healthcare systems and enabling industries to function. It sets our quality of life. But right now, to deliver the energy demands of tomorrow and reach our net zero goals on time, our energy systems need to change and become more sustainable today. We want to partner with start-ups and founders to accompany you on your growth journey, providing necessary support, guidance and network. Siemens Energy Ventures offers a unique blend of expertise; our own innovation history can be traced back to 1886, along with market access, networks and deep technology know-how. What we’re looking for is founding teams solving big climate and energy challenges with innovative ideas so we can energize society together. Contact us Our approach We put founding teams at the center of what we do. We believe a good way to co-create is by first giving our own expertise and resources to help solve the climate problem we are all liable for. There are four key areas where together we can tackle the technical and commercial challenges across the entire energy value chain. Venture building We build ventures. We identify new markets and build teams that have the potential to create and scale our next high growth business. We do this by: Scaling up ventures for growth or spin-out Catalyzing entrepreneurship through intrapreneurial pathways Building an innovation community across Siemens Energy Venture clienting We become an early customer of startups to test and adopt a solution defined by a clear business problem. The mutual benefits include: A unique opportunity to gain a corporate customer Commercial feedback to build better products and services Startup solutions to quickly and effectively solve our business problems Venture capital We support energy and climate startups as a strategic growth partner helping them to disrupt new markets and scale. You could benefit from: Access to our R&D expertise and global manufacturing know-how Growth opportunities from our network of customers, suppliers or other ventures Strategic investment Startup ecosystem We are building a startup community with Venture Capitalists, Corporate Venture Capitalists, Accelerators, Incubators. We add value to founders and startup teams so we can build and scale the next energy and climate businesses together. Benefits include: Mutual access to talent and technologies The ability to build our innovation capabilities Improved access to investment deal flow Our Ventures Percepto GeoPura Hymonic CertaLink Energy Certification #connect2evolve NextGen Geothermal Power (NGP) 1. Percepto Percepto is an Israeli startup which manufactures and deploys industry-grade drones. This enables an improved inspection and monitoring of power plants to ensure high availability levels whilst maintaining operational safety. Automating inspections utilizing drone technology power plants need to ensure high availability levels whilst maintaining operational safety. Often this was achieved through manual walk-throughs but this can be time consuming with no guarantee that all issues would be spotted. The Siemens Energy team in Israel, who are responsible for a power plant based on natural gas producing 73 megawatts of power, set out to find a different solution. Liaising with the Venture Clienting (VCL) team that is part of Siemens Energy Ventures (SEV), they were able to secure help to identify a startup solution to solve the challenge. In this case, Percepto was identified as the best option. An Israeli startup which manufactures and deploys industry-grade drones. This enabled an improved inspection and monitoring of power plants. In particular, it offered: Automated fault detection Regular inspections are undertaken which collect high-quality visual data allowing faults and issues to be spotted early. Mission reports After all missions are completed, a report is produced with actionable insights. Data is automatically uploaded after each drone flight which is analyzed using highly sophisticated AI and deep-learning algorithms. On-site autonomous drones The drone are housed on-site in a specific box enabling unmanned, frequent plant inspections. There is an added safety benefit in that inspections can be done from a remote location at the most convenient time, protecting the well-being of employees. Shutdown monitoring We can leverage autonomous inspection & monitoring technology to monitor activities on site during shutdowns. “ Effectively we’re operating as a customer of the startup. Ori Shpigel Head of Innovation, SE Israel and formerly part of the VCL team The VCL team assisted in the development of the business case and supported the demonstration, pilot and adoption phase to bring the startup solution into the business. As a result, the team in Israel were able to locate or trace the faults in a very quick way from the data and insights. Having proven successful in Israel and demonstrated its ability to minimize downtime, improve productivity and increase safety, the technology is now being scaled up globally within Siemens Energy. “ Before, it would take us a long time to understand that we have those problems on our site. With this new solution, we are saving time and increasing employee safety. Avishay Malul Siemens Energy, Power Plant Manager 2. GeoPura Siemens Energy Ventures is a minority investor in GeoPura alongside GM Ventures, Barclays Sustainable Impact Capital and SWEN CP through its fund SWEN Impact Fund for Transition 2. GeoPura provides hydrogen-fuelled clean energy to enable its customers to decarbonize their consumption of temporary, backup, off-grid, and grid augmentation energy. It utilizes its proprietary Hydrogen Power Unit(“HPU”) in collaboration with Siemens Energy (UK) and a network of hydrogen production sites. The GeoPura solution uses renewable energy, normally solar PV or wind, to create hydrogen for use as a fuel. This fuel is then transported to locations where a transportable “hydrogen power unit” converts it to electrical power. From start to finish the process is clean and carbon free – the only by-product is pure water. By replacing fossil fuels with zero emission alternatives in power generation applications, the GeoPura Hydrogen Power Unit can be utilized in current high-use diesel industries such as construction, infrastructure, outdoor events, EV charging and back-up power. GeoPura generates hydrogen and transports the fuel to customers for use in its HPUs – customers simply rent the units and pay for the fuel used. Current sustainability-driven customers include Balfour Beatty, HS2, National Grid and the BBC. “ Green hydrogen is too often seen as a technology that will happen in the future, but GeoPura and our partners are delivering a commercially viable technology, today. The world can’t afford to wait a decade for green fuels to scale. Andrew Cunningham CEO of GeoPura In 2021, broadcast history was made with the with the BBC by powering live TV with 100% clean energy. Most recently, an HPU was utilised during a maintenance outage at Uniper’s Cottam Development Centre (CDC) natural gas plant in Nottinghamshire. As the main contractor, Siemens Energy used the HPU to power the outage village, including welfare facilities and EV charging for all electric vehicles on site. GeoPura and Siemens Energy have worked together since GeoPura’s launch in 2019. Initially starting as a venture building project, this developed into a commercial collaboration agreement before being formalized with an investment during GeoPura’s Series A funding round. Our facility in Newcastle, UK is home to the manufacturing of the Hydrogen Power Units and provides engineering support services and office and industrial space to GeoPura. 3. CertaLink Energy Certification CertaLink Energy Certification can help verify and certify renewable sources of your product along the supply chain. With the help of blockchain and by connecting physical assets to the digital decentral infrastructure, a certificate identifies the product’s energy origin, carrying this from source to consumption, giving detailed insight into its low carbon intensity and other energy attributes. Learn more 4. Hymonic Our unique, distributed ammonia cracking solution is a critical component in building a reliable, cost-efficient green hydrogen supply chain as part of the energy transition. With our ammonia decomposition technology, we reduce the delivered cost of hydrogen to applications such as hydrogen refueling stations, off-grid power supply, maritime, and industrial users. We are building a prototype system in the UK which cracks ammonia and purifies hydrogen to PEM fuel cell quality. Our aim is to help the rollout of hydrogen – by utilizing an already existing and mature infrastructure for ammonia storage, transport, and handling. Learn more 5. connect2evolve Nearly 770 million people are without access to electricity. It is time to change this course. Electrification is key in promoting economic development, education and healthcare within a community. We at connect2evolve are building a digital platform to identify, assess, streamline and bundle electrification projects in remote areas to enable private sector investment. Learn more Our investment themes We’re interested in climate tech start-ups with transformative founding teams, technologies and business models that can help us address future energy demands. Our goal is to create more sustainable, affordable, and reliable ways to generate, transport, store, and convert this energy. Our current investment themes include: Our partners Venture capital GeoPura Malta MakerVerse Wirescan Seurat Venture clienting Percepto Razor Labs Anybotics Intranav Startup ecosystem Breakthrough Energy EIT InnoEnergy Hub71 Carbon13 Meet our team! Make it count Kendra Rauschenberger Vice President Siemens Energy Ventures LinkedIn Create impact, differently Enrique Gonzalez Zanetich LinkedIn There are no shortcuts in life – do the work and get rewarded Aziz S. Rahim LinkedIn Successful investing is about managing risk, not avoiding it Yasmina Moufarrej LinkedIn Work in Ecosystems Jaydeep Naha LinkedIn Impossible is just an opinion Adedoyin Pearse LinkedIn We cannot become what we want by remaining what we are Mica Jensen LinkedIn Believe in a better future, work to create it Itzel Soria Del Valle LinkedIn Your beliefs shape your reality. Believe in something, and you will find a way to make it work. Gus Manke LinkedIn One step at a time Julia Reid LinkedIn Critical mind and innovator driven by impact Michael Hofstetter LinkedIn Life is a daring adventure or nothing at all Jessica Hsu LinkedIn Enjoy what you do or make a change Bernd Koos LinkedIn Believing in your vision is the first step to creating it Andrea Sophie Stave Lepsoe LinkedIn Opportunity comes to the prepared mind Gordon Wang LinkedIn The secret of getting ahead is getting started – Mark Twain Leonardo Andres Peralta Tapia LinkedIn Dream Big, start small & don’t be afraid to Pivot Madhu Basu LinkedIn People make the difference Mandy Philipp LinkedIn Fuelling the world’s pulse Naeesha Fatima LinkedIn We haven’t come this far to only come this far. Praneeta Pakalapati LinkedIn To better our earth, we need to better our society, to better our society we need to better ourselves. Carpe diem – seize the day Saarah Ahmed LinkedIn Doors are there to be walked through, see what’s on the other side. Sophie Hendrie LinkedIn Empowering curious teams to build new meaningful ventures. Trent Greenland LinkedIn Let's talk Please reach out to explore how we can “energize society” together for the future. We’d love to hear from you. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025