Power Plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Innovative power plant solutions Individual power plants that create value As energy consumption will continue to increase in the years to come, efficient power generation will be a vital component to reliable, eco-friendly energy systems. Fluctuations are more frequently and at shorter intervals. Energy markets around the world are demanding more and more from their participants – whether that be responding flexibly to fluctuations, observing increasingly stringent emission limits, supplying power at lower and lower costs, or ensuring supply under adverse conditions. Anyone looking to stay ahead of the game needs more than an “off-the-shelf” power plant.   You need an individual power plant solution aligned with your objectives? Whether it’s a small, integrated system or a heavy-duty power plant, a purely gas-fired simple cycle or a hydrogen or a combined cycle power plant, we’ll collaborate closely with you to find and construct a solution optimized specifically for you. Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Heavy-duty power plant solutions Learn more Industrial power plant solutions Learn more Combined heat and power plants Learn more Hydrogen Power Plants Learn more Benson® technology Learn more Small hydro power Learn more Steam turbines in CCPPs Learn more SeaFloat power plants Learn more Brownfield Transformation Learn more Heat ReCyle Solutions Learn more Hybrid power solutions Learn more Energy system design Learn more Power plant components Gas turbines Learn more Steam turbines Learn more Generators Learn more Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines Learn in our new white paper: Why gas turbines are urgently needed in the future energy landscape What sustainable gaseous and liquid fuels are available for gas turbines How carbon capture technologies can be combined with gas turbines What you should know now as a gas turbine owner or operator Request white paper Power of innovation built on tradition Our ideas grow from experience: In 1866, Werner von Siemens developed the first electric generator, and Siemens Energy built the first power plant in 1885. This spirit of invention is what has driven our power business ever since. Since 1990, we`ve brought more than a hundred turnkey power plants online, supplying hundreds of GW of electricity. Each of them has been constructed with customized solutions to meet our customers’ individual challenges. In other words, we’ve always been involved in supplying electricity to industries, regions, and people all over the world. That’s our purpose. Let’s make tomorrow different today! A truly integrated solution always comes from a single source We have the most extensive in-house technology portfolio on the market, which allows us to choose the most appropriate products to incorporate into your solution. That  allows you to benefit from our expertise as an OEM EPC and from the certainty of one-stop procurement – for every one of your projects. From individual components like I&C to power islands and turnkey power plants Simple cycle power plants, thermal power plants, combined cycle power  plants From industrial of about 20 MW to 2,000-MW heavy-duty power plants For 50- and 60-Hz grids As combined heat and power (CHP) for maximum fuel utilization Net plant efficiencies in excess of 64 percent Extraordinarily reliable, low in emissions, and easy on resources Sustainability for your power plant project: EHS measures minimize the risks Health and safety are our top priority – for our own employees and those of our suppliers and partners. That’s why we work with management plans and assessments, and that’s why we train and test everyone involved. We regularly visit sites and evaluate the commitment of each individual participant, whether they’re in the office or at the construction site – with one clear goal: to keep people safe from harm. Our EHS (environment, health, and safety) measures significantly cut accident rates and downtime. And in the end, they pay off for your project: with a positive transfer of knowledge to your local team, faster completion, reduced non-conformance-costs (NCCs), and a good reputation. Learn more Lowering CO₂ by using hydrogen for power generation New gas power plants being build today will very likely be converted at a later stage to burn a blend of hydrogen up to 100% during the lifetime of the plant. This means that provisions for cost efficient later retrofit to hydrogen are essential. Hydrogen ready should not be confused with hydrogen capability.  However, today’s new power plants will typically start operating with natural gas for several years. It is therefore crucial to build new natural gas fired power plants that can easily be upgraded and converted to hydrogen operations as hydrogen becomes available to the operator. By doing so, natural gas fired power plants are future-proof and will be fit to meet the amount of hydrogen for which it has been made ready, with minimal conversion costs. Learn more The scope you need - From package to full turnkey power plant You can choose between different scopes of supply – from core turbine only, gas turbine packages up to complete gas-fired power plants. Package GT and ST packages incl. auxiliaries GT air intake / exhaust system Fuel gas system Skids Connecting pipes GT and ST generators incl. auxiliaries Fire protection Electrical and I&C Options Power island HRSG Kettle boiler/rotor air cooler Condenser incl. air removal system Boiler feed pumps Condensate pumps Critical valves Fuel pre-heater with filter, metering station etc. Power island controls Options Power core W/S cycle, main piping, valves, HXs, etc. as prefab skids/pipe racks Circulating water pipe rack Closed cooling water system as prefab skid and pipe rack Relevant building layout engineering Options Turnkey power plant Plant cooling systems Water treatment Raw water system Waste water system/tanks Our power plants supply the world: examples of successful partnerships More than 1,500 Siemens Energy power plants are in operation around the world. Here is a selection of the top projects we’ve implemented for our customers. Power for the mining industry in Queensland Petronas, Malaysia First large scale EPC project with an Oil & Gas company Comprises four co-generation units that use H-class technology Dual stream configuration to produce 1.22GW of electricity and a continuous supply of steam (at 1480 tonnes per hour) Record-breaking power plant at the Lausward site Stadtwerke Düsseldorf, Germany Reliable energy supply for 600,000 residents Annual reduction of CO₂ emissions by 2.5 million tons Noise exposure in the urban area less than 25 decibels World’s largest combined cycle power plant in Egypt Ministry of Electricity and Energy, Egypt Reliable power supply for 15 million people Eight H-class gas turbines, four steam turbines, and twelve generators delivered by Siemens Part of the mega project that’s boosting Egypt’s power generation capacity by 50 percent Power for the mining industry in Queensland Diamantina Power Station Pty Ltd, Australia Power supply for local tin and copper mills as well as residents of the area Flexible in simple and combined cycle operation, highly efficient at partial load or load changes Two power islands at 121 MW (each consisting of one industrial steam turbine SST-400, two industrial gas turbines SGT-800, and two heat-recovery steam generators) Fast, clean power plant for California Northern California Power Agency (NCPA), USA Power output of 300 MW, combined cycle efficiency of 57 percent in 2012 Power feed-in of 200 MW within 30 minutes Balances fluctuations from renewables Are you looking for a power plant that’s especially efficient or extraordinarily flexible? One that will stabilize your power supply? Or one that will provide your industrial facility with power at a reasonable cost? Whatever you might need: We work alongside you to find the perfect solution for the tasks you face. Contact us Stories April 7, 2020 9 min read Why LPG plants are idea for electrifying rural and remote locations June 15, 2020 11 min read Efficient floating power February 25, 2020 3 min read When a paper mill invests into climate protection Read all stories Press releases November 17, 2022 Munich/Stuttgart Prospects for using hydrogen in gas power plants are becoming tangible August 23, 2022 Berlin Siemens Energy and Duke Energy’s gas power plant achieves GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS™ title November 16, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy is the first manufacturer to receive certification for “H2-Ready” power plant concept Read all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025