Siemens Energy’s digital transmission technology enables push for wind energy in Vietnam Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy’s digital transmission technology enables push for wind energy in Vietnam Press release December 17, 2020 Erlangen Digitally enhanced substation assets will connect two wind farms to the grid Project is part of the country’s plan to foster integration of renewable energy Siemens Energy has been awarded a contract by Technology Resources Energy (TRE) to equip two onshore wind farms in Vietnam with Sensproducts, digitally enhanced transmission equipment. The two wind farms IaPet-Dak Doa 1 and IaPet-Dak Doa 2 are both located in the Dak Doa district of Gia Lai province in the country’s central highlands and will have a capacity of 100 megawatts each. The wind farms are part of Vietnam’s ongoing Power Development Master Plan to further push the integration of renewable energy sources and to enhance the power supply. “The Dak Doa wind farm project is another excellent project demonstrating how digitalization is providing the technical basis for the most efficient use of renewable energy sources,” says Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy. “With the order of our Sensproducts TRE chose a future-proof transmission system and I am proud that our digital portfolio will play a distinct role in fostering the integration of wind energy in Vietnam.” Siemens Energy will equip the substation connecting the wind farm with the national grid. Amongst other substation assets, the company will deliver digitally enhanced transmission products with advanced intelligence from the company’s Sensproducts portfolio, including connective circuit-breakers, surge arresters and power transformers. Equipped as Sensformer Advanced units the transformers come with a digital twin, a synchronized thermo-replication of the physical asset, that will allow the operator to manage temporary overloads without compromising on lifetime. “Once completed, the IaPet Dak Doa substation will be operated with two transformer banks of 900MVA capacity each and become the key to both north and south grid system,” said Duong Quynh Hoa, CEO of TRE. “Located right next to the existing Pleiku 2 substation which is also being upgraded, the total capacity of both combined substations will make this the biggest connection point in terms of capacity throughout Vietnam. For that reason, we have opened the bid to select the best solutions and are very grateful to award the contract to Siemens Energy. We hope that Siemens Energy’s consistent quality and excellent services shall bring success to the long-term operation of our wind farm and the 500-kilovolt substation,” she added. Steve Loo, Head of Transmission Products and Systems Asia Pacific Hub at Siemens Energy, said: “This project will certainly create more buzz surrounding our digital solutions and increase our visibility for the wind market. The renewables sector will also help to accelerate our efforts towards decarbonization and clean energy.” The scope of supply of connective transmission equipment includes three units of 500 kV and two units of 220 kV power transformers, three 500 kV and six 200 kV circuit-breakers with advanced trending as well as 15 surge arresters rated at 500 kV. All these assets will be equipped with smart IOT (Internet of Things) technology and sensors to measure the most important operating parameters. The operator will be able to check the status of the substation assets via online applications in real time to increase efficiency and availability of operations. Additionally, the company will deliver conventional disconnectors, instrument transformers and current limiting reactors. The energization of the substation is scheduled for August 2021. At the IaPet-Dak Doa one and IaPet-Dak Doa two wind farms a total of 44 wind turbines will be installed. They are expected to generate a gross energy of about 532,622 megawatt hours annually. Links Website: Sensproducts® - from products to system intelligence Contact Christina Huemmer Siemens Energy Freyeslebenstr. 1 91058 Erlangen  Germany Christina.Huemmer@siemens-energy.com +49 152 07158923 Download Press Release PDF Download (Vietnamese) PDF (219 KB) Download PDF Download (English) PDF (103 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more March 26, 2025 Berlin Siemens Gamesa to divest a majority stake of its Indian wind business and enter into strategic partnership agreement with TPG and others February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory October 17, 2023 Berlin Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025