NCPA at the Geysers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations Geothermal energy Reference Automation Modernization and upgrades Control systems Instrumentation and control Electrical systems After the modernization of their control system for their geothermal fields the Northern California Power Agency (NCPA) Geyser in California benefits from increased operator efficiency and improved maintenance with real-time data and informative system alarms. Contact us “ The Omnivise T3000 Distributed Control System is a state-of-the-art system that allows for increased operator efficiency through a simple and robust platform. Dean Watson Northern California Power Agency The customer challenge: Improved operation of the plant The Northern California Power Agency (NCPA) Geyser is a publicly operated facility, generating power from geothermal wells on site. Since the mid-1980s, NCPA has operated two geothermal power plants in Sonoma and Lake counties, California, that have produced more than 27 million megawatt-hours of electricity for its 11 members/owners. The plants consist of 77 geothermal wells, two 110-MW power plants (with two 55-MW generating units each) and associated steam pipeline facilities. The goal of the modernization was to provide a complete control package using pre-designed integration drawings, with minimal installation challenges. Striving to permit ease of operation and ease of maintenance, Siemens Energy was tasked with updating the first of two plants, focusing on the BoP, generator and turbine control systems to a state-of-the art DCS system, which can easily be expanded into a plantwide DCS system in the future. Another goal of the modernization was to improve the control of the steam valves with a high pressure oil system and closed loop servo control steam valves. The solution: Optimized maintenance strategies and better performance The solution provided, Omnivise T3000 , uses a state-of-the art object-oriented programming platform, utilizing pre-built functions blocks and templates to maximize programming and configuration efficiencies. The built-in I&C diagnostics require no additional equipment, allowing for optimized maintenance strategies. Omnivise T3000’s operator interface allows for structured monitoring and control of the entire generation system through user-specific roles that provide the correct view for operation, maintenance, engineering, optimization or management. Also performed during the modernization was the conversion from a low-pressure lube oil system to a high-pressure DEH system to enable the plant to achieve better performance to meet the demands of today’s market. The updated high-pressure hydraulic system for steam valve control utilizes a servo-based closed loop design, one of Siemens Energy’s many custom solutions. Find out more about the products and services applied: Omnivise T3000 Control system Contact us The benefits: One supplier, one reliable system Omnivise T3000 additionally supports the BoP and related systems unique to this geothermal generation facility. Increased operator efficiency and improved maintenance with real-time data and informative system alarms. All BoP and generation controls integrated into one DCS package, one supplier, one reliable system. Learn more about modernization of control systems in geothermal plants With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025