Earnings Release Q1 FY 2025 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Earnings Release Q1 FY 2025: Strong start to the year – capitalizing on favorable market trends Press release February 12, 2025 Munich Siemens Energy got off to a strong start to this new fiscal year. Demand for our products remained favorable and the strong order trends continued. The prior-year quarter’s figures for revenue, Profit before Special items and cash flow were clearly exceeded. All segments contributed to the improvements. Orders of Siemens Energy amounted to €13.7bn. As expected, this was below the high level of the prior-year quarter, in which Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry had booked exceptionally high orders. Book-to-bill ratio (ratio of orders to revenue) was 1.53, leading to a recordorder backlog of €131bn. Revenue of €8.9bn increased by 18.4% on a comparable basis (excluding currency translation and portfolio effects) with all segments recording growth. Profit before Special items of Siemens Energy more than doubled year-over-year to €481m (Q1 FY 2024: €208m) again held back by results of Siemens Gamesa, but to a significantly lesser extent than in the prior-year quarter. Special items amounted to negative €18m (Q1 FY 2024: positive €1,670m, in connection with disposals). Siemens Energy's Profit came in at €463m (Q1 FY 2024: €1,878m). Net income was €252m (Q1 FY 2024: €1,582m). Corresponding basic earnings per share were €0.23 (Q1 FY 2024: €1.79). Free cash flow pre tax was materially stronger than expected at positive €1,528m (Q1 FY 2024: negative €283m) driven by project advance payments and timing effects of customer payments. All segments contributed to the improvement. Based on the development in the first quarter, management now expects that Siemens Energy will exceed the current Free cash flow pre tax guidance of up to €1bn and therefore intends to update the Free cash flow pre tax outlook for fiscal year 2025 with the half-year results for fiscal year 2025. Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy AG: “Our strong first quarter reflects the market opportunities arising from the increasing demand for electricity. The strong cash flow was mainly driven by growth across all our businesses, advance payments and timing effects. Our focus lies still on profitable topline growth and technological leadership” Please read the complete Earnings Release: Earnings Release Q1 FY 2025: Strong start to the year – capitalizing on favorable market trends February 12, 2025 PDF (592 KB) Download Outlook For fiscal year 2025, we continue to anticipate overall favorable conditions in Siemens Energy’s relevant market environment. Strong electricity consumption growth, replacement investment and the requirements of the energy transition necessitate investment in energy infrastructure sup-porting all businesses of Siemens Energy. At Siemens Gamesa we continue to work on the measures to reach break-even in fiscal year 2026. We continue to strive for resume sales activities for the 5.X onshore turbine during fiscal year 2025. We expect for Siemens Energy to achieve comparable revenue growth (excluding currency translation and portfolio effects) in fiscal year 2025 in a range of 8 % to 10 % and a Profit margin before Special items between 3 % and 5 %. We expect Net income to be around break-even excluding assumed positive Special items subsequent to the demerger of the energy business from Siemens Limited, India. Due to the development in the first quarter, we now expect to exceed the previous Free cash flow pre tax guidance of up to €1bn. We intend to update the Free cash flow pre tax outlook with the half-year results for fiscal year 2025. The outlook for Siemens Energy does not include charges related to legal and regulatory matters. Overall assumptions per business area Gas Services assumes a comparable revenue growth of 7 % to 9 % and a Profit margin before Special items of 10 % to 12 %. Grid Technologies plans to achieve a comparable revenue growth of 23 % to 25 % and a Profit margin before Special items between 10 % and 12 %. Transformation of Industry expects a comparable revenue growth of 11 % to 13 % and a Profit margin before Special items of 8 % to 10 %. Siemens Gamesa assumes a comparable revenue growth of negative 9 % to negative 5 % and a negative Profit before Special items of around €1.3bn. Notes and forward-looking statements This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “antici-pate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy´s management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy´s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report and the Half-year Financial Report, which should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or not at all, or should assumptions not be met, Siemens Energy´s actual results, perfor-mance, or achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of develop-ments which differ from those anticipated. This document includes supplemental financial measures – that are not clearly defined in the applicable financial reporting framework – and that are or may be alternative performance measures (non-GAAP-measures). These supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens Energy´s net assets and financial position or results of operations as presented in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its consolidated financial statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled alternative performance measures may calculate them differently. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. Contact Tim Proll-Gerwe Siemens Energy tim.proll-gerwe@siemens-energy.com +49 152 2283-5652 Contact Oliver Sachgau Siemens Energy oliver.sachgau@siemens-energy.com +49 173 2729231 Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025