Into the clean-hydrogen frontier Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications October 1, 2021 6 min read Into the clean hydrogen frontier by Niels Anner Expand renewables Transform conventional power Story Drive industry decarbonization Even as a student in mechanical engineering “power generation without pollution” fascinated her. Now at a groundbreaking research facility in Sweden, Åsa Lyckström and her team have put all the pieces for a sustainable energy system. “Right now, we’re in the assembly workshop,” says Åsa Lyckström above the whirring and pings of gas turbines being put together, “ and right outside here we have the Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center , where we show how gas turbines and renewables work together to create sustainable and reliable energy systems.” Lyckström, Sustainability Strategist at Siemens Energy, is part of a team of engineers and researchers advancing the use of green hydrogen in gas turbines. At the center in Finspång, Sweden, they have created a model for the transformation of the energy sector, using turbines, solar power, hydrogen and energy storage. “We have all the necessary puzzle pieces in place,” says Lyckström. “It could be scaled for a city, for an industry – or even larger.” “ When you have green hydrogen fuel powering turbines, they release zero carbon emissions – and it’s 100 percent renewable. Åsa Lyckström Sustainability Strategist, Siemens Energy The future of gas turbines “This project to build an energy system of the future has been three years in the making,” says Lyckström. Solar and wind power, of course, had been around for a long time, but more complex and sustainable solutions were required to store excess capacities and balance grids powered by fluctuating sources. Future energy systems will therefore consist of many different “puzzle pieces,” Lyckström argues. While today’s gas turbines can provide both reliability and flexibility in power generation, energy storage and green fuels like hydrogen will be key. “The bridge between gas turbines and renewables is hydrogen,” she says. “ZEHTC hydrogen can be produced from solar power and excess gas turbine power, and then we use that hydrogen as fuel in the gas turbine. When you have green hydrogen fuel powering turbines, they release zero carbon emissions – and it’s 100 percent renewable.” Why don’t they use renewables? For the 48-year-old Swede both engineering and sustainability were always important. As a child, she recalls being fascinated by urban traffic systems with their networks of roads, bridges and tunnels. But when she started her studies in mechanical engineering at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm , the topic of energy captivated her – “power generation without pollution,” as the students called it back then. Decarbonization and sustainability were not buzzwords yet, but when Lyckström got the chance to write her master’s thesis on Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion in Hawaii, renewables definitely came into focus. “It was striking for me, that Hawaii – as many other parts in the world – didn’t utilize the huge energy potential it has in wind, sun and water. Of course, at the time, many people across the world didn’t understand the full value of renewables or know how to use these resources properly.” When Lyckström joined Siemens Energy, she got into the gas turbine business as a technical sales manager for global markets. She brings together perspectives from different energy areas, and she is convinced that a step-by-step approach is vital for the transition. “We need several backup solutions for future energy systems relying on volatile renewables.” The new facility is both showcase model and research center for building flexible, zero-emission energy systems with gas turbines. Going from turbines to net zero That is why the ZEHTC brings different components together. An electrolyzer produces hydrogen from solar power and surplus electricity from gas turbine testing that would otherwise be wasted. A battery helps to increase operational flexibility and show various ways for storing energy – either as compressed hydrogen, electricity in batteries or both. The stored hydrogen is then fed back into the workshop as gas turbine fuel for the next test – the zero-emissions loop is closed. “We are noticing a great deal of interest from our customers, both in operational flexibility to support electrical grids with fluctuating renewables and in the use of hydrogen in gas turbines,” Lyckström says. Siemens Energy has continuously improved the technical capabilities for hydrogen-capable turbines in recent years and has already reached volume levels of up to 75 percent. The company has set itself the target of being able to operate gas turbines entirely with hydrogen by 2030. Hydrogen is not yet available in sufficient quantities in many places. But the turbines’ fuel flexibility, combined with interconnected energy systems, will allow for a gradual transition as the infrastructure is put in place. The center uses solar power and excess energy from the testing to produce its own hydrogen. A promising solution for California? The center will also provide valuable data on how the different components best interact, with the goal of building similar systems on a larger scale. Lyckström expects to see this development in just a few years’ time. She lists Germany and California as examples where scaled-up systems could offer a promising solution soon. Both states have many Siemens Energy gas turbine customers and renewables play an increasingly important role. California, for example, wants to achieve fossil-free power generation by 2045. Therefore, a major infrastructure to produce green fuels and balance the grid will be essential. “Properly connected, all of California could develop into a ZEHTC at a very large scale.” Hydrogen-capable turbines can already operate on volume levels of up to 75 percent and will run entirely on hydrogen by 2030. Åsa Lyckström explains how future hydrogen and gas turbine energy systems could work. A magnet for talented engineers Initially, Åsa Lyckström joined the company as a graduate trainee . Today, she assists in supervising students and trainees in Finspång, who belong to an international workforce consisting of 75 nationalities. And projects like the ZEHTC help to attract talented engineers, many of them well educated in hydrogen technology. “They don’t come here for the beautiful Swedish nature, the many lakes just around the corner – even if that’s definitely a plus for Finspång,” she laughs. “No, what interests them is how they can contribute to meeting the Paris Agreement.” Today, accords and global goals such as the Paris Agreement and the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development are setting a clear direction for companies and countries, Lyckström says: “We would like to help reach those goals with our products. And all the more so, at a time when the world’s need for energy will increase.” October 1, 2021 Niels Anner is an independent journalist based in Copenhagen, who writes on business, science, technology and society in Northern Europe. Combined picture and video credits: Lasse Burel Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025