Decarbonization of power Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Energy transition on the horizon Decarbonization strategies for a lower CO₂ footprint Stavanger Imagine a secure, sustainable energy system.... Step by step, we´re making it reality Visit us at ONS 2024 and meet our experts live at our booth #2250, Hall 2 August, 26-29 Power sector decarbonization The world is hungry for energy, and climate change calls for lower emissions. Industries and power generation companies take on both challenges while running their daily operations. These are demanding times. The companies need efficient, reliable decarbonization technologies to succeed, plus innovative, individual solutions that adapt to their decarbonization strategies. Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines Learn in our new white paper: Why gas turbines are urgently needed in the future energy landscape What sustainable gaseous and liquid fuels are available for gas turbines How carbon capture technologies can be combined with gas turbines What you should know now as a gas turbine owner or operator Request white paper Decarbonization technologies on the radar We adapt to new realities and seize emerging opportunities. But decarbonization takes time. It’s not an overnight shift. We are pragmatic and thorough. Our approach is holistic and step by step. We improve the efficiency of existing energy assets. We upgrade and modernize wherever possible. The transition away from conventional fuels comes next. We move from coal to gas and then to hybrid systems and cleaner fuels, such as hydrogen. This is how Siemens Energy leads the way to a deeply decarbonized world. This is how we support governments, utilities, and industry to a transformed system of energy. Decarbonizing energy systems - step by step Click the animation below, and we'll take you on our energy transition journey. You will see how zero CO 2 emissions can become reality. Partner of the energy transition Siemens Energy will shape the future of energy systems. We want to be climate neutral. And we want to gradually decarbonize our portfolio. We already support our customers on their path towards decarbonization. Efficient, reliable technologies, and service solutions that reduce emissions and costs: Siemens Energy is here to transform the world of energy. Let’s get to work and make real what matters. Let’s energize society with our unique portfolio. Fuel-flexible and hydrogen-ready gas turbines. Combined cycle plants. Hybrid power and energy storage. Power-to-x and sector coupling. We have what it takes to decarbonize society. Latest use cases Hybridization Supply of three grid stabilization systems for the German power grid Two synchronous condensers combined with the world's first reactive power compensation system with supercapacitors Supercapacitors make reaction to fluctuations in the grid faster than conventional battery storage solutions Learn more Deep decarbonizaton 50 MW electrolyzer plant for world's first large-scale commercial e-Methanol production facility in Denmark Usage of low-cost renewable electricity from a 300 MW solar park to produce the e-fuel E-Methanol will be used for large-scale CO2-neutral shipping Learn more Fuel shift Hydrogen trial for Donaustadt power station, Austria: Conversion of STG-4000F gas turbine to blend hydrogen into the energy mix In the first stage of trial the hydrogen share will be 15vol%, increased to up to 30% later Saving 33.000 tons of CO₂ emission per year Learn more Deep decarbonizaton High-Voltage Direct Current transmission system for the first power link between Great Britain and Germany Enables the exchange of up to 1.4 gigawatts of electricity in both directions - enough to power up to 1.5 million homes Saving of 16 million tons of CO₂ emissions Learn more Efficiency increase Brownfield Engine Exchange in Schwarzheide, Germany The project involves the replacement of a gas turbine from another OEM with a SGT-800 gas turbine. A SIESTART battery storage solution will add black start capability The plant is now 10% more efficient and emits a ~16% lower volume of GHGs such as CO₂ Learn more Deep decarbonization Hyflexpower project to modernize existing combined heat and power plant in France Worldwide first industrial-scale power-to-X-to-power demonstrator with an upgraded H2-capable SGT-400 gas turbine Will save up to 65,000 tons of CO₂ per year Learn more Fuel shift H₂ ready gas turbines for Stadtwerke Leipzig, Germany 2x SGT-800 gas turbines for a new district heating plant Successive conversion to hydrogen operation Learn more Efficiency increase 900 MW Cascade Power Plant in Alberta, Canada SGT6-8000H gas turbines in single shaft combine cycle configuration, steam turbines and heat recovery steam generators as well as long-term services CO₂ reduction by switching the power supply from coal to natural gas Learn more Deep decarbonization Pilot project: first industrial scale, solar-driven green hydrogen facility in the region Electrolysis, storage, and re-electrification capabilities for different uses, e.g. mobility and industry Solar power will enable the project to produce around 20.5kg/hr of hydrogen at 1.25MWe Learn more Fuel shift Coal-to-gas-shift Orient Champion at Paper Shanghai, China On-site power generation with SGT-300 gas turbines and additional process steam generation allow for massive reduction of emissions and costs CO₂ reduction: -60% emissions Learn more Deep decarbonization Trailblazer – first industrial scale facility of its type ever built Entire electrification, automation, and digitalization (EAD) solution plus delivery of a complete digital twin Production of green biochemicals without the use of fossil-based raw materials for a high decarbonization decrease Learn more Deep decarbonizaton Fuel from Wind and Water at Haru Oni: Siemens Energy, alongside several international companies, is developing and implementing the world’s first integrated and commercial large-scale plant for climate neutral e-fuel production Promising strides to achieve Chile’s Green Deal Deep decarbonization of transport sector Learn more Deep decarbonization Cooperation agreement between GREEN Solar and Siemens Energy to develop a concept for making Herzogenrath CO₂-free Lighthouse project for a successful energy transition of the city Herzogenrath in Germany The city plans to cover its energy demand with zero CO₂ emissions by 2030 Learn more Deep decarbonization Attica-Crete Interconnection at Crete, Greece The HVDC project will connect Crete with Greece, enhance power supply reliability and foster the integration of renewable energy CO₂ reduction: 500,000t of CO₂ emissions in first year of operation Learn more Deep decarbonization First electricity link between Germany and Belgium HVDC PLUS technology for transmission of 1,000 MW electricity Easy integration of renewable energy for controlled power supply Learn more Download Whitepaper Toward a new energy system PDF (4 MB) Download Hydrogen power and heat with Siemens Energy gas turbines PDF (2 MB) Download How a cleaner power sector can help Vietnam reduce air pollution PDF (1 MB) Download The climate case for hydrogen technologies in Vietnam PDF (3 MB) Download ELEC's world ELEC lives in a light bulb. Energy is his life. So, he is quite curious about the energy transition and all that has to do with it. You are curious as well? Then our video series is just right for you. Grid stability Learn how synchronous condensers help to stabilize the grid … Learn more Sector coupling Travel into the future to learn why sector coupling is key for a decarbonized world. Learn more Decarbonization Find out which steps are necessary to reduce carbon emissions. Learn more District heating See how a heat pump helps MVV Energie in Mannheim, Germany to decarbonize district heating... Learn more Storage Solutions See how energy storage is used to balance fluctuating infeed from renewables. Learn more Industrial plant Visit BASF Schwarzheide to see how power plant conversion helps to decarbonize. Learn more Gas-fired plants Learn why replacing coal by gas would lower CO2 emissions by two-thirds. Learn more Media and More Why it’s time to fast-track carbon capture to future-proof power plants Carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technology isn’t new and it’s been much mal... Read more How disruptive service solutions will re-energize power plants We are on the way to a carbon-free future, but we won't get there overnight. In any case, ... Read more Scaling up clean fuels for net zero Along with short-term energy storage, clean fuels will be needed to secure supply during p... Read more Safeguarding the stability of the grid Today, the energy system continues to evolve. The changes are numerous: fossil power and r... Read more Why storage is the Swiss Army knife of energy transition When it comes to our energy future, nothing will work without energy storage. That’s why t... Read more The hot topic we can’t ignore Heat accounts for around half of global energy consumption, contributing 40% of CO2 emissi... Read more How to decarbonize data centers? How can data centers ensure power availability and quality while contributing to ambitious... Read more What does it take to reach net zero? To find out we've worked with international partners to build a demonstration plant in Swe... Read more Hybrid power plants Though renewables are essential to decarbonizing our economy, we cannot rely on them compl... Read more Managing change to reach a decarbonised energy system In the first of an exclusive Power Engineering International nine-part series entitled ‘Fu... Read more Kicking out coal and greening gas on the road to net zero It’s happening in France this year, the Netherlands by 2029, Canada by 2030, Germany by 20... Read more Magazine stories October 16, 2022 6 min read What the world could learn from Austria’s first hydrogen field tests June 23, 2022 5 min read Making a power plant future fit - a tailor-made solution for BASF October 4, 2022 6 min read On-site power generation for Shanghai Orient Champion Paper November 14, 2022 9 min read Haru Oni: eFuel plant of the future See all stories Press releases November 16, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy is the first manufacturer to receive certification for “H2-Ready” power plant concept August 30, 2022 Munich Siemens Energy technology stabilizes German power grid March 2, 2022 Munich / Copenhagen Siemens Energy secures electrolyzer order from European Energy for world´s first large-scale eMethanol project April 11, 2022 Berlin Less waste, more security of supply: Siemens Energy receives major order for first power connection to Great Britain See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025