Single stage radial compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Single-stage radial compressors High efficiency, high reliability single-stage radial compressors for a wide range of applications We offer a comprehensive range of single-stage radial compressors for applications in the metallurgical, oil and gas and chemical industries. These single-stage compressors are offered in a variety of designs. They can be configured with separate or integrated gearboxes, or as directly driven units. This allows to perfectly match the compressor with a wide range of prime movers including steam turbines and electric motors to meet customer preferences and specific site conditions. Features Performance data Applications High flow, high efficiency impeller technology High-speed balancing ensures long time uninterrupted operation Hirth-serration connection between impeller and shaft eliminates the need for re-balancing after rotor disassembly Horizontal split gearbox casing enables easy access in case of maintenance (where applicable) Compact design option for steam turbine driven units (direct drive) Compliance with API standards where required Volume flow rates: 5,000 to 300,000 m³/h Discharge pressure: up to 60 bar (100bar) Power requirements: up to 25 MW Driver options: electric motor, steam turbine Acrylic Acid Applications requiring compliance with API standards Butanol Direct Reduced Iron (DRI) Ethylene Glycol Ethylene Oxide Oxo Alcohols Synthetic Natural Gas Vinyl Chloride Monomer (VCM) Polypropylene / Polyethylene LNG Recycle gas applications Single-stage centrifugal compressors for air compression Our single stage centrifugal compressor is the perfect fit for atmospheric air compression at low pressure ratios. It covers a large flow range from small to very high volumes of up to 300,000 m³/h. This compressor uses well proven components from our integral geared compressor line and is designed in accordance with API 617. State-of-the-art aerodynamic parts allow a compact, single stage design. If necessary, an external gear box is used to match the driver speed. This modular design offers the advantage of an unchanged compressor design irrespective whether the machine is driven by a steam turbine, gas turbine or electric motor. Design Our single stage overhung compressor boasts a simple and robust design with well referenced components, smaller dimensions and less weight at the highest efficiency level, and low maintenance requirements. In case of higher pressure ratio requirements, the configuration comprises two single stage overhung machines driven by a double-ended steam turbine drive between the compressors. Features Technical data Applications Outstanding impeller technology for high capacity and high efficiency Large flow range Simple, robust design in accordance with API 617 High efficiency Highest reliability due to well referenced components Low service intensity Easy maintenance Small dimensions Low weights Low spare part costs Comprehensive driver options Volume flow rates up to 1,250,000 m³/h Pressure ratio up to ~3 and up to 6.5 in case of two units in tandem arrangement Suitable for electric motor, steam turbine or gas turbine drive For two unit arrangement, the compressors are suitable for intercooling or uncooled compression Regeneration air applications in PDH (Propane DeHydrogenation) plants Blast furnace blowers Fluid Catalytic Cracking Main Air Compressor for Air Separation units Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on single stage radial compressors What is a single stage compressor? A single-stage compressor is a type of compressor where the gas is compressed in a single step or stage. This means that there is only one impeller inside the unit and all the pressure is developed in one stage before it is discharged to the next process. What is the difference between single stage and multi-stage compressors? The main difference between single stage and multi-stage compressors is the number of times the gas is compressed. In a single stage compressor, the gas is compressed once, while in a multi-stage compressor, the gas is compressed multiple times in different stages (by multiple impellers) to achieve higher pressure. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025