Siemens Energy to supply transformers for China’s first 66 kV offshore wind farm Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to supply transformers for China’s first 66 kV offshore wind farm Press release March 10, 2021 Erlangen 22 fluid-immersed distribution transformers for Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project First 66 kV offshore wind farm supporting China’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2060 Siemens Energy will install 22 units of distribution transformers at China’s first commercial 66 kilovolts (kV) offshore wind farm, Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project Phase 1, located in Taizhou, Zhejiang Province, southeastern China. The fluid immersed transformers of type FITformer WIND will support China Huadian Corporation (CHD) to optimize energy supply in the Yangtze River Delta region. With an installed capacity of 300 megawatt the wind farm will supply environmentally friendly power to about 240,000 households per year. “To successfully drive the energy transition, it is essential to increase the share of renewables in the energy mix. Equipped with innovative state-of-the-art transformer technology, China’s first 66 kV offshore wind farm will lead the way to a significant increase of clean, renewable wind energy to the grid and will contribute to China’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2060,” said Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy. Growing demand for wind energy has led to the development of increasingly stronger wind turbines which produce 10 megawatts and beyond, requiring higher voltage levels and innovative power transmission technologies. The FITformer WIND transformer was developed to enable these larger power capacities with a voltage class of up to 72.5 kV. The compact and lightweight transformers for Phase 1 of the Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project will be installed in the tower base of the wind turbines. With strong corrosion resistance FITformer WIND transformers are fully suitable for the hostile conditions of marine environment operation guaranteeing high reliability and low maintenance requirements. In addition, the highly efficient transformers are filled with biodegradable synthetic ester insulating oil instead of conventional mineral oil, which is particularly environmentally friendly and fire safe. The first phase of the Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021 and will effectively optimize energy supply in the Yangtze River delta. After commissioning the project is forecast to result in a reduction of 584,000 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per year, which is more than 12,600 passenger cars emit in one year. The order continues Siemens Energy’s recent global track record of power transmission projects in the wind energy sector. To date more than 2.500 units of the ester fluid immersed FITformer WIND were installed in wind offshore applications worldwide. Links Further information on Siemens Energy FITformer distribution transformers Contact Christina Hümmer Siemens Energy christina.huemmer@siemens-energy.com +49 152 07158923 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (97 KB) Download PDF Download (Chinese) PDF (224 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025