Heavy-duty power plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Peak performance with gas-fired system Power plant solutions Increased profitability Power plant solutions Increased profitability Heavy-duty power plants In today's complex power market Siemens Energy is a strong partner capable of providing you with competitive power plant solutions to improve the profitability of your business. We offer both simple cycle and combined cycle power plants turnkey from a single source. Tailored for your specific needs and challenges of the market. Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Tailored to your needs Are you looking for a highly efficient combined cycle power plant to cover base load at reasonable cost? Or a robust simple cycle power plant that will cover peak loads under tough conditions? Siemens Energy will develop and build the solution you need: simple and combined cycle power plants, with or without combined heat and power (CHP), flexible and sustainable. You can rely on proven technologies that will pay off throughout the entire lifetime of your power plant – technologies that set the standards in efficiency and reliability, and are fit to meet future challenges. Performance And Efficiency Booster: HL-class The next level of efficiency and performance With our HL-class gas turbine we are paving the way to the next level for higher power plant efficiency and performance. This evolutionary development step, derived from proven H-class technology, combines a series of new but already tested technologies. The result: A technology carrier to the next level with a combined cycle efficiency beyond 64% and a clear midterm goal of 65%. The HL-class consists of two engines:  SGT5-9000HL and SGT6-9000HL. The next level of efficiency and performance With our HL-class gas turbine we are paving the way to the next level for higher power plant efficiency and performance. This evolutionary development step, derived from proven H-class technology, combines a series of new but already tested technologies. The result: A technology carrier to the next level with a combined cycle efficiency beyond 64% and a clear midterm goal of 65%. The HL-class consists of two engines:  SGT5-9000HL and SGT6-9000HL. HL-class 50 Hz - designed for higher combustion temperatures HL-class 60 Hz - An optimized compressor for greater efficiency Proven And Highly Efficient: H-class Power Plants The pioneering trail-blazer With the SGT-8000H turbine series, you can build on maximum output and efficiency and world-class availability levels. Power plants based on SGT-8000H turbines can be configured to meet a wide range of requirements: Single or multi-shaft applications With or without steam turbine With optional heat extraction Available with Flex-Plant flexibility Powerful Get the most out of your resources: a combined cycle power plant with a single H-class gas turbine will achieve an efficiency of about 62 percent and a power output of 675 MW (50 Hz) or 472 MW (60 Hz). Highly flexible Reliably cover your electricity needs: daily startup to full load operation in less than 30 minutes plus rapid load changes – our flexibility solutions will equip your H-class power plant for any load requirements. Low emission Reduce greenhouse gas emissions: an H-class power plant operates at high efficiency and with low emissions, even at part-load. We ensure that exhaust emissions are kept to a minimum even when starting up and shutting down – for you to comply with all relevant directives. We can even keep plants with SCR technology under 2 ppm NOx and CO while ramping with our unique Clean-Ramp™ technology. Read more Flexible And Reliable: F-class Power Plants Uncomplicated performer A high output with low electricity generation costs:  F-class power plants offer high power output and a world-class efficiency. Combined with a proven availability of more than 95 percent,  you can concentrate on other matters and leave your power plant to pay for itself. Whether you need a single or multi-shaft application, with or without a steam turbine – you’ll get a plant that perfectly fits your needs. Profitable in the long term Keeping an eye on costs: F-class power plants are especially service-friendly. Longer service intervals keep maintenance costs down – which means you get an ideal balance between capital costs, plant performance, and operating costs. Suitable for every load profile Stay flexible: our F-class Flex-Plants can be quickly started up and shut down. This means that you can cover peak loads as efficiently as well and intermediate and base load demands. Robust And Durable: E-class Power Plants Tenacious distance-runner In extreme temperatures and inhospitable environments: wherever robust technology is needed, E-class plants are the right choice. With a power output of up to 275 MW in 1x1 combined cycle operation and low lifecycle, they provide a reliable supply where it is most needed: in remote regions, areas with challenging climates, and in tough industrial environments. Long-term dependability Whether you need a simple single-shaft configuration or multiple lines, or a system combined with a steam turbine or heat extraction all of these run reliably under extreme conditions. Wide range of firing options Keep your options open: E-class power plants offer outstanding fuel flexibility – from low-calorific gases, gases containing CO 2 , H 2 S and N 2 to crude oil and other liquids with high viscosity. Variable operation modes Cover your peak loads: our E-class power plants can be rapidly started up, ramped and shut down. With no major efficiency losses, they are suited to operating with fluctuating power demand. What you can count on We are your reliable partner in all phases of a project: from business model design to financial closing, from technology selection to permitting, and from engineering to profitable operation – your success is our passion. Partnership: reliable at all times Construction time: best in the market Safety: achieving the highest safety standards Operation: most extensive regional footprint in the industry Support for project financing Prefabricated modules (Siemens Energy Solutions Blocks) Extremely low rate of work accidents Global service network Thorough technical background Committed to on-time delivery Minimized downtime Comprehensive expertise in every market Hydrogen readiness New gas power plants being build today will very likely be converted at a later stage to burn a blend of hydrogen up to 100% during the lifetime of the plant. This means that provisions for cost efficient later retrofit to hydrogen are essential. Hydrogen ready should not be confused with hydrogen capability. Hydrogen ready is defined as a prepared pathway towards an x% hydrogen capability. Learn more Siemens Energy power plants supply the world More than 1,500 power plants are in operation around the world. Here’s a selection of the top projects we’ve implemented for our customers. Morrow Repower Project, USA (2023) Repowering project to convert a coal-fired palnt into a CCPP Customer: Cooperative Energy 1 x SGT6-9000HL gas turbine, 1 x SGen6-3000W generator Read more HKW Leipzig Süd, Germany (2023) Combined heat and power plant Customer: Stadtwerke Leipzig 2 x SGT-800 gas turbines and SIESTART battery energy storage Read more Leipheim, Germany (2023) Customer: LEAG Scope: SGT5-4000F gas turbine, SGen-2000P generator and Omnivise control system Remote-controlled gas-fired peaker power plant Read more Beni Suef / New Capital / Burullus, Egypt (2018) Three combined cycle power plants Customer: Egyptian Electricity Holding Co. (EEHC) Power output: 3 x 4.8 GW (14.4 GW total) Efficiency: > 60 % net Scope: 12 x SCC5-8000H (2x1), each with 2 x SGT5-8000 gas turbines, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, 3 x SGen5-2000H generator, Omnivise T3000 I&C system, HRSG Azura-Edo, Nigeria (2018) Open cycle power plant Customer: Azura Power West Africa Limited Power output: 461 MW Scope: 3x SGT5-2000E gas turbines, 3xSGen5-100A generators, Omnivise T3000 control system Innovative remote diagnostic and maintenance at Siemens Energy There are no limits! Learn how we are transforming technician support at the BASF Schwarzheide site with the HoloLens augmented reality headset. Read more Asia's most efficient combined cycle power plant Completed ahead of schedule Efficiency nearly 61 percent, power output of 415 MW< Significant cost savings on fuel, service, and maintenance Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025