Continuous emission monitoring with Emidate Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Continuous emission monitoring with Emidate Continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) are essential for customers who need to ensure compliance with environmental regulations , maintain operational efficiency, and minimize their environmental impact. Our system provides real-time data on pollutant levels, enabling proactive management and timely corrective actions. Data acquisition and handling systems (DAHS) have the ability to deliver accurate, reliable, and continuous monitoring of emissions, which helps customers avoid costly fines, enhance their sustainability efforts , and improve public health and safety. By leveraging advanced technology and analytics, CEMS offer a comprehensive solution for maintaining regulatory compliance and supporting environmental stewardship. The right emission monitoring system for you Emidate stands out with its open architecture and scalability , enabling its use in projects of all sizes, from the largest power plants to the smallest installations. With various certifications, Emidate complies with diverse international regulations , allowing widespread adoption in many countries which is validated by more than 200 installations globally . Plant operator State of the art emission monitoring system according applicable laws and standards. Regulatory bodies The defineable emission reports can be customized according to regulatory requirements. Solution partner Easy parameterization, modularity and full customizability will be beneficial for all plant sizes. Emidate: our certified emission data acquisition and handling system Emidate generates evidence that a certain plant is being operated within the limits of regulatory bodies and standards. This is done by data acquisition from continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) or predictive emission monitoring systems (PEMS) . The data is presented in real time visualization and reports. Emidate may also be used to send the data with various interfaces to different systems. Emidate the data acquisition and handling system for capturing and visualizing emission data supports: QAL3 procedures MCERTS certified ÖNORM M9412-TÜV tested. Emidate complies with the requirements of EN14181 and EN17255 standards. Download brochure Download your certificates English German MERTS Certificate Emidate Folder PDF (3 MB) Download Emidate TÜV Certificate PDF (246 KB) Download Emidate EN14181 Certificate PDF (527 KB) Download Emidate Folder PDF (3 MB) Download Emidate TÜV Zertifikat PDF (262 KB) Download Emidate EN14181 Zertifikat PDF (541 KB) Download MERTS certificate Contact Our experts are happy to help you with your emission monitoring challenges! Contact us now! Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025