Environment, health and safety in grid technology Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 4, 2023 2 min read Our journey to Zero Harm Sustainability Stories We want to do more than embrace our responsibility for environmental protection and the health and safety of our employees. We want to become an industry leader – with a Zero Harm culture where everyone is committed to care, respect and accountability. “ For us, every case counts. Ben Dahn Head of EHS - Grid Technology Products, Siemens Energy At the core of our corporate culture lies a commitment to Environmental Protection and Occupational Health and Safety (EHS). It’s our collective responsibility to safeguard the environment and care for the wellbeing of our employees. “Imagine, in our grid technology business alone, we have 43 plants around the world,” says Benjamin Dahn, Head of EHS - Grid Technology Products at Siemens Energy, “and in order to identify global company trends we have to carefully measure and report accidents and the events leading up to them. For us, every case counts. And we use these findings to continuously improve EHS programs at Siemens Energy.” Watch the video: Most incidents have a triggering human factor – from the fitter at the workbench to the service technician, or the people in sales traveling hundreds of kilometers a week. Our goal is to make sure they all get home safe and sound. Over the past 60 years, our accidents rates have continued to drop. But to keep reducing accident and injury rates to zero, we all need to think differently. It’s important that everyone at Siemens Energy takes part in the conversation. We’re on a journey to zero harm – and a driving principle behind that culture is that we take care of each other. Protecting people, protecting the environment: Many Siemens Energy products, such as the zero emission Blue technology, are making significant contributions to decarbonization projects around the world. A reporting app helps us to identify unsafe situations before an incident even happens. How we measure safety Our employees are required to report every accident using a unique tool (also available as a smartphone app) that allows them to document and categorize an incident, down to the smallest details. This helps us to recognize and reward positive behavior or to proactively identify unsafe situations before an accident even happens.” We also look at the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) to measure all the data and determine the right action. TRIR, which has now become the global standard, allows us to discover patterns across multiple worksites, bringing further transparency into our safety performance. This replaces the previous standard of measuring the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, which focuses more on lost work time and less on the current well-being of the workers involved. We want our employees to be aware and alert, but we realize we can’t change safety culture with the snap of a finger. Instead, safety starts at the top and extends to every level – and our Siemens Energy leaders not only set the right example, but encourage employee-led initiatives and collaborations with global and regional partners to keep us all safe. Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress towards our sustainability targets and continue to improve our sustainability performance. Learn more Combined picture and video credits: Stefan Hobmaier Read more April 10, 2025 How to optimize the aluminum supply chain network? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read Inclusion and diversity lead to more innovative solutions See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025