Heat ReCycle solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Heat ReCycle solutions water-free operation available electricity gas turbine solution using waste heat water-free operation available electricity gas turbine solution using waste heat It is often impossible to put a price on the value of water, especially in regions where water is a scarce resource A reliable solution for environmentally sound, affordable electricity Heat ReCycle™ Our Heat ReCycle solution is comprised of a gas turbine power plant with Organic Rankine Cycle- (ORC) technology. The combination of proven gas turbine and ORC technology for efficient recovery of waste heat is our response to the market challenges which various regions of the world are facing today. One billion people do not have any access to electricity, and another billion have a lack of reliable power supply; especially ones that are located in remote and isolated areas. Offering affordable electricity while taking the environment with water-free operation into account can be achieved with a reliable Heat ReCycle power plant solution. Send us an e-mail Developing remote areas Heat ReCycle allows for remote areas to be provided with highly efficient and reliable power generation. Unmanned operation in isolated regions enables deployment in desolate areas, supporting economic growth in these parts of the world. Providing affordable electricity Heat ReCycle offers electricity at the best possible cost over its lifetime while maintaining high efficiency. This means that both people and industries will have access to affordable energy for their daily needs. Producing lower emissions From an environmental perspective, highly efficient Heat ReCycle power plants produce lower emissions when compared to other technology that is typically used in remote areas, like diesel generators and reciprocating engines, resulting in lower NOx, CO2 and Unburned Hydrocarbon (UHC) emissions. Offering water-free solutions Heat ReCycle is a water-free solution. In many regions in the world, water is a scarce resource. Heat ReCycle power generation allows water to be used for people, not for power. Heat ReCycle is a gas turbine power plant with Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) technology Through the efficient combustion of fuel, the gas turbine generates electricity and produces hot exhaust gas. The thermal energy in the hot exhaust gas is recovered through a Waste Heat Recovery Unit (WHRU), using an organic fluid as the heat exchange medium. The hot organic fluid is used to power an ORC-turbine and generator to generate additional electricity. This combined cycle characterizes itself with simplicity compared to a water-/steam-cycle, at the same time completely eliminating the need for water at all. The Organic Rankine Cycle The Organic Rankine Cycle's principle is based on a turbogenerator working as a conventional steam turbine to transform thermal energy into mechanical energy and finally into electrical energy through an electrical generator. Instead of generating steam from water, the ORC system vaporizes an organic fluid, characterized by a molecular mass higher than that of water, which leads to a slower rotation of the turbine, lower pressures and no erosion of the metal parts and blades. Heat ReCycle portfolio The Heat ReCycle range of power plants provides a wide choice of different industrial and aeroderivative gas turbines. The power plant can be customized for the required project-specific boundaries, such as power output and operating load regime. Heat ReCycle power plant configurations are possible from roughly 10 to almost 100 MWe capacity. Heat ReCycle 3 x SGT-400 reference plant The 3 x SGT-400 Heat ReCycle reference configuration is used as an example for explaining this new power plant in further detail. Having a three-on-one (3 gas turbines on 1 ORC turbine) configuration in the typical 50-MW capacity size range enables operational flexibility. Especially for remote locations, the 50-MW size range has traditionally been served by reciprocating engines or simple cycle gas turbines. Now, Heat ReCycle offers a cleaner and more efficient alternative, while providing a great deal of flexibility through this multi-unit set-up. Heat ReCycle 3 x SGT-400 power plant details The total power plant output of this configuration is in the range of roughly 52 - 58 MW, depending on the GT version and project conditions. See more plant details in the below table: Heat ReCycle 3 x SGT-400 configuration details SGT-400 Heat ReCycle Configuration 3 x SGT-400 Power plant output (ISO) 52 - 58 MWe Fuel Natural gas/liquid fuel/dual fuel/other Frequency 50/60 Hz 50/60 Hz Power plant efficiency ~ 47 - 50 % Bottoming cycle Organic Rankine Cycle Heat transfer medium Thermal oil / Cyclopentane NOX emissionson fuel gas with DLE, 15% O2 ≤ 15 ppmvd Heat ReCycle plant overview and main components Plant overview – integrated plant design concept The Heat ReCycle 3 x SGT-400 configuration provides flexible, reliable and affordable power while complying with the most stringent emissions standards globally. The multi-unit set-up allows for a great deal of flexibility and plant part load capability while also reaching high efficiencies with the ORC bottoming-cycle. This 50 MW-range power plant is unique in its kind and is competitive against reciprocating engines in the same power range. The benefits include a very high power-density, attractive CAPEX, and better LCoE than similar power solutions for intermediate to base load power generation. Visit our industrial power plant page SGT-400 gas turbine The SGT-400 is a simple, robust twin-shaft gas turbine, suitable for all climates and serves a power band of 10 – 15 MW. The SGT-400 is a leader in operational and fuel flexibility, low emissions, and overall efficiency. A wide range of fuel compositions can be burned while running efficiently at all loads. The turbine can meet stringent emission standards while operating as low as 30% load, and has seamless, true dual-fuel capability. With more than 390 units installed all over the globe and more than 5 million actual operating hours, it is an excellent fit to the Heat ReCycle power plant. The Waste Heat Recovery Unit The Waste Heat Recovery Unit (WHRU) offers an efficient method of recovering thermal energy from the waste heat of gas turbine exhaust gases. Unlike a traditional Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG), the WHRU is a single stage system using a once-through principle and is therefore less complex. The WHRU has been completely optimized around the gas turbine and is charaterized by its highly modular design for optimal constructability. The complete WHRU can be installed in less than 6 weeks and offers the lowest total installed cost. Contact us! For more information on Heat ReCycle power plant solutions, please get in touch with our experts. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025