Siemens Energy to start production of hydrogen electrolyzers in Berlin Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 250,000 tons less CO2 thanks to renewable hydrogen: Siemens Energy delivers electrolyzers to Normandy Press release September 15, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy is supplying 12 electrolyzers with a total capacity of 200 megawatts to Normandy, France. Air Liquide, a world leader in gases, technologies and services for Industry and Health, will operate them in its Normand'Hy project. Starting in 2026, Air Liquide’s plant in the Port-Jérôme industrial zone will produce 28,000 tons of renewable hydrogen annually for industry and the mobility sector. With this amount, a hydrogen-fueled road truck could make it 10,000 times around the world. "The sustainable decarbonization of industry is unthinkable without green hydrogen. That is why projects like this are so important. But they can only be a starting point for a sustainable transformation of the industrial landscape. Other large-scale projects must follow quickly. For the development of a European hydrogen economy to succeed, we need reliable support from policymakers and simplified procedures for funding and approving such projects", says Anne-Laure de Chammard, member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy. By using electrolyzers from Siemens Energy, Air Liquide will contribute to the decarbonization of the Normandy industrial basin and mobility by offering low carbon hydrogen. As a result, up to 250,000 tons of CO2 can be saved each year. Ordinarily, 25 million trees would be needed to bind this amount of carbon dioxide. The electrolyzers supplied by Siemens Energy are based on proton exchange membrane technology (PEM electrolysis), which is highly compatible to intermittent renewable energy supply thanks to its short ramp-up time and dynamic controllability, and it is very well suited for the rapid ramp-up of the hydrogen industry due to its high energy density and small footprint and material requirements. The Normand'Hy project will be one of the first to be supplied from Siemens Energy's new electrolyzer production facility in Berlin in the framework of the joint venture between Air Liquide and Siemens Energy. Industrial series production of stacks – the heart of the PEM electrolyzers – will start in November this year. By 2025, production is expected to ramp up to at least three gigawatts per year, supplying hydrogen projects around the world. Contact Claudia Nehring Press Spokesperson Hydrogen & Industry Solutions claudia.nehring@siemens-energy.com +49 162 166 8424 @cnoNehring Claudia Nehring Download Press Release 250,000 tons less CO2 thanks to renewable hydrogen: Siemens Energy delivers electrolyzers to Normandy September 16, 2023 PDF (92 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 94,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. Read more Read less Read more November 8, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy and Air Liquide pave the way for the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy with new gigawatt factory for electrolyzers March 1, 2023 Berlin Blueprint for commercial e-fuel production being built with Siemens Energy technology December 20, 2022 Berlin A lighthouse project at the southern tip of Chile: Production starts at the world’s first industrial-scale facility for carbon-neutral fuel March 2, 2022 Munich / Copenhagen Siemens Energy secures electrolyzer order from European Energy for world´s first large-scale eMethanol project September 10, 2021 Munich/Stuttgart Construction begins on world’s first integrated commercial plant for producing CO2-neutral fuel in Chile See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025