Omnivise Hybrid Control Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Omnivise Hybrid Control Control Solution for Microgrids and Hybrid Power Plants Download Brochure PDF (1 MB) Download Request a demo Omnivise Hybrid Control is a control solution for medium and large microgrids as well as hybrid power plants. It is capable of managing a variety of different decentralized energy resources, automated, autonomously and in a coordinated way, ensuring reliable 24/7 operation. At the same time, it is flexible and scalable to support larger number of assets when needed. Microgrid with a Omnivise Hybrid Control solution With Omnivise Hybrid Control, remote locations can easily be supplied with sustainable power. Hybrid plants combine renewables with other solutions that eliminate their weak points. Omnivise Hybrid Control integrates the different technologies to make sure, that all components interact perfectly. Watch the video and learn more. Omnivise Hybrid Control - Live demo of the Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center In our webinar we talk about the automation requirements for such a hybrid energy system and present a live demo of our proven Omnivise T3000 control system. Request now Omnivise Hybrid Control solution provides the following standard functions: Power Exchange – Load sharing functions Conventional generation (diesel and gas) control Renewables (PV and wind) and battery control Islanding - Black Start - Resynchronization Frequency and voltage control Reserve management Load shedding Peak shaving Measurement acquisition and archiving Event management Monitoring, data archiving and reporting Main components of the Omnivise Hybrid Control solution The Omnivise Hybrid Control solution consists of three main components: Microgrid Controller T3000 Manages all assets in real time. With integrated microgrid control functions, automated 24/7 operation is provided. SCADA Application Server Provides SCADA functions for monitoring and engineering of a microgrid, enabling the operator full overview and control. Dispatch Optimization Calculates an optimal economic dispatch based on load and generation forecasts, as well as financial and technical parameters. Microgrid Controller Omnivise T3000 SCADA Application Server Dispatch Optimizer Microgrid Controller Omnivise T3000 hardware The Microgrid Controller of the Omnivise Hybrid Control solution is based on the Siemens Energy standard plant control hardware Omnivise T3000 . This ensures highest hardware standards in reliability, longevity and security. Omnivise T3000 includes AS3000 Automation Server, and CS3000 Communication Server hardware modules.  It is designed for a wide range of applications and for rough environment conditions. Full redundancy and cyber security functions are provided on a hardware level. The innovative, flexible platform combines all automation and communication tasks. It provides real time capabilities as needed for demanding control and closed loop applications. Also, T3000 provides the runtime environment for demanding and complex optimization and programming tasks. An integrated dual redundancy link allows smaller footprinting and reduced wiring. The integrated 3rd party connectivity enables an efficient control system design with a scalable setup for easy expansion. Additionally, online repair can be performed with only a temporary interruption of the redundancy. I/Os are connected via PROFINET and/or via PROFIBUS. Omnivise T3000 provides flexible connectivity options, e.g.: Modbus RTU/ASCII and TCP DNP3.0 serial, over UDP2 and over TCP IEC 60870-5-101 and -104 IEC 61850 Connect S7/PCS7 via Black Box OPC UA Client (DA, AC) SCADA Application Server Omnivise Hybrid Control SCADA running on the application server gives operators and engineers full control and transparency over the microgrid. The solution is preconfigured with standard microgrid dashboards showing all necessary information, with several levels of detail. Main functions: System overview with monitoring and alarms Single-line-diagram overview Detailed asset control and monitoring E-BoP Balance of Plant Manual operation and control over all individual assets Data archiving Key features of Dispatch Optimization Sets the basis to connect market-driven trading, including spot markets, with the defined production potential of the fleet and its plants Generates short, medium and long-term generation schedules and provides recommendations for cost and revenue-optimized generation Supports fulfillment of supply obligations with optimized use of fuel or other resources Also provides information to help support decision-making for fuel contracts, electricity contracts, CO₂ planning, investment calculations for determining whether to add capacity or upgrade existing plants Dispatch Optimizer supports Customers to perform optimal in complex trading/ marketing processes Omnivise Hybrid Control: Use Cases Per definition and standards, microgrids are entities which manage their own decentralized power production and consumption and are capable of island operation mode. Depending on a business case, many microgrids, always run in on-grid mode. Managing a microgrid with multiple different decentralized resources requires a hybrid microgrid controller to provide automated and at the same time optimal operation for the customer. Omnivise Hybrid Control is the perfect solution for large and mid-size microgrids, e.g., for IPPs, islands, industries, data centers, mines. Microgrid Use Case 1 Microgrid Use Case 2 Microgrid Use Case 3 Islands and remote areas with high renewable penetration Integrating large amount of renewable resources (PV, wind) on islands and remote areas which rely on conventional diesel generation can reduce overall fuel and operational costs. This however requires integration of additional energy storage (batteries, H₂) in a microgrid to ensure the reliable and stable power supply. Possible use cases: Smoothing of intermittent renewables (PV, wind) to inject into the grid of an island under ramping constraints Diesel fuel offsetting by shutting down diesel gensets when renewables are available, and running them when not For long term storage needs green hydrogen production H₂ electrolysis -> H₂ storage -> power Integrating renewable generation with CCPPs for decarbonization Renewable resources (PV, wind, green H₂) and batteries can be well integrated with existing and new combined cycle power plants in a microgrid to reduce the carbon footprint and increase the overall system efficiency. Possible use cases: Providing resiliency with off-grid capability with integrated PV and BESS Ancillary Services – frequency and voltage grid support with BESS and H₂ CO₂ reduction with PV and BESS while keeping low ramping of CCPP for higher efficiency Industrial Microgrid for Resilience and Cost Savings With increasing cost of electricity and at the same time demand, C&I customers can install own generation to reduce their energy bills, and at the same time be able to run their essential load in off-grid mode. With CHPs and CCPs thermal energy is extracted for industrial processes, heating/cooling or electricity recuperation. With integration of rooftop PV, CO₂ emissions are reduced. Possible use cases: Peak shaving for TOU tariff and demand charge savings with own generation (PV+BESS, gas, diesel) Increased efficiency with thermal energy extraction (CHP) Resilience in avoiding blackouts and off-grid operation CO₂ reduction Managing a wide variety of different energy resources worldwide The Omnivise Hybrid Control solution has proven its performance in installations all around the globe. Don't hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. Showcasing a future energy system Omnivise T3000 SCADA combines all types of generation units by centralized process control Flexible and sustainable energy system connecting gas turbines with hydrogen, renewable energy (electrolyzers) and energy storage Managing the complexity of power plants as well as the aggregation of simpler automation requirements Learn more Long-term environmental goals with Hybrid Control Supplying almost 900 households with electricity, on Isabela, the largest Galápagos Island. Eliminating the use of fossil fuels by integrating renewable resources The controller manages the hybrid power plant by integrating a 952 kWp photovoltaic system, a battery storage system with an output of up to 660 kW and a generator power plant with a total output of 1625 kW. Haru Oni: Exploring the routes to decarbonization A Omnivise Hybrid Control solution will be used for world’s first integrated commercial plant for producing CO₂-neutral fuel. The Haru Oni project applies electrolysers to split water into O₂ and green H₂ using wind power. CO₂ is then filtered from the air and combined with the green H₂ to produce synthetic methanol, which in turn is converted into eFuel. A pilot plant is initially being built in Chilean Patagonia, which produces around 130,000 litres of eFuels in 2022. The capacity will then be expanded to around 550 million litres by 2026. Learn more Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our product. If you have questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Read more January 30, 2024 5 min read Navigating energy challenges: affordability, reliability, sustainability May 18, 2023 8 min read Renewable energy isn’t enough December 10, 2021 7 min read What a real-time brain for microgrids can do for decarbonization See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025