Siemens Energy to accelerate its journey to deliver profitable growth and fix wind business while maintaining a solid financial foundation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to accelerate its journey to deliver profitable growth and fix wind business while maintaining a solid financial foundation Press release November 21, 2023 Berlin Capitalizing on main energy trends to continue delivering profitable growth in Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry Clear plan to return profitability at Siemens Gamesa by fixing quality topics in onshore and driving ramp-up in offshore Prudent resource allocation adhering to stringent capital allocation principles while maintaining a solid balance sheet and financial foundation At its third Capital Market Day in Hamburg, Germany, Siemens Energy presented a strategic outlook to analysts and investors. The Executive Board outlined a clear path to create shareholder value along three priorities: Deliver on profitable growth, fix the wind business and maintain a solid financial foundation. "We are achieving consistent and impressive results in 70% of our businesses. Those results show that our underlying strategic north star to become a leader in the energy transition is right. Our portfolio is excellently positioned, and our record order backlog of 112 billion Euros clearly demonstrates this. As a next step, we will accelerate profitable growth and execute our order backlog with improved margins and operational excellence. The turnaround of Siemens Gamesa remains our highest priority and we now have a defined path and action plan to reach break-even for the wind business in fiscal year 2026 and to return to profitability thereafter,” said Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy’s CFO Maria Ferraro emphasized prudent resource allocation with focused investments geared towards growth or customer requirements. In addition, she re-emphasized the company’s commitment to maintain its investment grade credit profile which underlines Siemens Energy’s fiscal year 2024 net cash target. The business areas Gas Services, Grid Technologies, and Transformation of Industry, which account for 70% of Siemens Energy’s revenue, are all on track to achieve or exceed their mid-term targets. Here, Siemens Energy benefits from strong market trends and its well positioned portfolio supporting customers with their decarbonization efforts. In these three business areas, Siemens Energy expects margins of 7-9% for Transformation of Industry (target upgraded), 9-11% for Grid Technologies (target upgraded) and 10-12% for Gas Services (target confirmed) by fiscal year 2026. Global energy trends, like major grid investment and decarbonization, act as a catalyst for profitable growth across the entire Siemens Energy portfolio. Investment in the energy transition amounted to US $1.7 trillion[1] in 2023 – highlighting the pace and scale at which clean energy technologies are being deployed. Demand for electricity is set to double between 2022 and 2050. By 2050 there will be six times more installed global capacity on the grid from renewable energy sources. The market is now starting to see traction from governmental decarbonization investment programs and supportive regulatory frameworks like the EU Wind Package. This, coupled with the arrival of decarbonization targets in new and emerging markets, is boosting future market prospects for Siemens Energy with its energy technology portfolio that supports the entire value chain. Defined action path and plan for wind business to break-even in fiscal year 2026 The wind subsidiary Siemens Gamesa has suffered serious setbacks. These challenges overshadowed the solid performance of the other businesses. With a clearly defined action plan based on simplifying the product portfolio, optimizing footprint and operations, and strengthening processes and control, the wind business will be fixed, and reach break-even in 2026. The technical review in onshore has identified the deficiencies with high impacts in the onshore business and remediation actions are under preparation. Siemens Gamesa will be focusing its onshore business based on specific criteria, such as supportive regulations and policies and, sizeable profit pools resulting in an optimized footprint. In offshore, Siemens Gamesa is ramping up production capacity at existing factories to meet customer demand and work through the order backlog. Strengthening operational excellence through plant-specific initiatives, commercial selectivity and implementing cost-saving measures, will increase profitability. Siemens Gamesa expects to achieve break-even by fiscal year 2026 followed by profitable growth. [1] Based on IEA World Energy Investment Report 2023, published May 2023. Contact for journalists Tim Proll-Gerwe Head Media Relations tim.proll-gerwe@siemens-energy.com +49 152 2283-5652 Contact for journalists Danielle Turton danielle.turton@siemens-energy.com +44 (0)7808 827 577 Download press release Siemens Energy to accelerate its journey to deliver profitable growth and fix wind business while maintaining a solid financial foundation November 22, 2023 PDF (107 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 96,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023. Read more Read less Related Press Releases May 8, 2025 Munich Second Quarter Results FY 2025 April 16, 2025 Berlin Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG announces preliminary results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and raises its outlook for fiscal year 2025. See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025