Omnivise for Offshore Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Omnivise for Offshore Providing the steps toward autonomous operational, performance and condition monitoring Contact Our Approach Today an ever-increasing amount of data is generated, but many players in the energy sector struggle to leverage this vast flow of information and to put it to work. At the same time, changing markets require in-depth data analysis, interpretation, and advice to make an impact on the bottom line. As a result, knowing that digital transformation entails more than just technology, we do offer a broad portfolio of digital services, but also a collaborative approach to boost your performance with custom solutions. It is a business model born out of our expertise and domain know-how that helps you profit from digitalization, experience, and highly skilled manpower. Omnivise for Offshore (O4O) Omnivise for Offshore (O4O) is a unified software platform with a subscription concept to condition and performance monitoring. It plays an important role in our customers quest for digital transformation beyond just monitoring the technical health aspects. It serves multiple segments of offshore operations environments with equipment condition and performance insights in one integrated solution. Based on defined pieces of a Digital Twin, it provides information suited for decision making in the form of dynamic and historic status and KPIs information, reports and alerting dashboards on computers and digital devices. Typical users are personnel responsible for equipment and process integrity and performance, needing to work efficiently being notified on exceptions at the right time. O4O Increases Efficiency The solution offers immediate value to personnel responsible for planning as well as those resolving operational challenges and need root cause analysis. Not to forget the need of reporting to regulators. We have estimates from our customers showing significant savings implementing our solutions through increase Production Efficiency and reduced on site manning. O4O Provides Flexibility Omnivise for Offshore (O4O) has been designed with a modern microservice architecture to be flexible and scalable, meeting most customer needs spanning from simple edge based single equipment monitoring to the surveillance of multi equipment, multi-site solutions remote operation and fleet management centers. Omnivise for Offshore: Concept Omnivise for Offshore offers a layered information model starting on the top with aggregated information related to the equipment constellation and context, e.g. switchboards or drive trains, offering a status summary tailored to reflect the user’s role, responsibility and workflow. The user will be able to drill down for more detailed information in standardized detailed dashboards for most common equipment types where experienced professionals will be able to consume and understand the aspects of health and performance for a given equipment. In the event there is a need to custom build special purpose analytics, whether it will be machine learning models, physics models, rule-based models or others, they will be able to run in an integrated way with our solution, being developed by Siemens Energy or others. This is achieved by hosting the analytics in a specially designed analytics framework connected to the O4O platform through data contracts. Our concept is deigned on a modular architecture utilizing data contracts also for our internal communication between services. This allows us to update services without braking changes in most cases meaning it allow you to upgrade the solution with little or no downtime to keep the solution “evergreen”. O4O Scalability Due to our unique way of standardizing and populating the detailed information dashboards we can engineer and deploy Omnivise for Offshore to large amounts of equipment with reasonable effort to enable full scale monitoring on sensible budgets. It is possible to start out with a limited scope and expand to more equipment types, auxiliary systems and multi-site monitoring as needed. O4O Workflow Automation Due to the modular and flexible architecture, Omnivise for Offshore can serve data and information to be used in automated workflows through APIs towards your company’s computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) O4O Dependable Observability For our customers to be able to rely fully on our solution for critical decision making, we have built in sophisticated observability. The user will always be knowing the status of the Omnivise for Offshore’s own internal health status and performance. In the rare event any of the internal services should malfunction, the Omnivise for Offshore will make the user aware. Sophisticated support functions will bring our experts directly to the root cause for reduce unwanted downtime. O4O Deployment Because Omnivise for Offshore's architecture has been designed with the various digital ecosystems of our customers in mind, it is possible to deploy on Edge, Cloud or as a hybrid. This allows us to offer information available locally on site even in the case cloud connection and internet is not available, or preprocess high resolution data for cloud availability even if bandwidth or storage aspects set limitations. Deployment and servicing are fast and uncomplicated using technologies like Docker and Kubernetes. Omnivise for Offshore will connect to any control system utilizing standard interfaces like OPC UA or more specialized connectors and gateways. Our customers benefit greatly from being connected to the SOGO ICSS and TIB control solutions due to the standardized preconfigured data models matching the digital solutions indicator requirements as it offers optimized engineering work processes and tools. O4O Price Flexibility The price models reflect the flexibility and scalability of the Omnivise for Offshore solution reflecting each customer’s specific needs and environment. Our digital specialist team will be more than happy to support you in finding the right setup and service level agreement for your plant. Omnivise for Offshore: Overview and Use Case Videos Application Overview Notification Menu Tranformers Condition Monitoring Gas Turbine Condition Monitoring Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our product. If you have questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025