Small hydro power Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Small hydro power Siemens Energy has over 145 years of experience in hydro power. Arrange an individual consultation Fill out our contact form Small Hydro Sipocon-H Optimizer The hydro power plant system is composed of specifically designed and harmonized components. As a tailor-made solution it aims to fulfill customers’ requirements. To achieve the targeted performance of the plant, the overall process control system optimally manages the interaction of the components. It offers numerous ways to select modes, to switch between states and to prioritize operational aspects also dynamically. Sipocon-H Optimizer Flyer A smart way of solving environmental and economic challenges The global climate change calls for new and more ecofriendly methods of power generation. At the same time, each power plant investment must pay itself off within a certain period of time. Using the enormous power of water - one of mankind’s oldest ideas for power conversion - can combine both ecofriendly and economic power generation. State-of-the-art, small hydro power plant technology from Siemens Energy helps to unleash this potential and enables a climate-neutral power generation to invest and operate competitively. Siemens Energy has demonstrated its core competences in hydro power, in both water to wire solutions and plant modernizations, in more than 1,000 small hydro plants worldwide. Siemens Energy’s small hydro expertise ranges from engineering, supply, installation and commissioning to service. Small hydro power plants from Siemens Energy today supply more than 5,000 megawatts electrical power worldwide. We are the reliable partner for integrated and customized small hydro turnkey solutions. What Siemens Energy can offer: Water to wire solutions for small hydro power plants Customized design and engineering according to individual needs Modernization and service of existing plants with minimized production losses Local support, maintenance, and service for highest availability Highest degree of operational safety and efficiency for even the smallest plants Digital solutions for the optimization of your plant/fleet e.g. by using Digital Twins Digitalization Hybrid and storae solutions New plants Modernizations and upgrades Service Digitalization Siemens Energy povides a broad portfolio of digital solutions with tangible outcome, focused on generating units, power plants or entire power plant fleets. These solutions increase transparency, avalability, operations management and plant performance. Fleet solutions for example, can either be based on customers own IT infrastructure or supported by cloud-based open IoT operating systems. The Sipocon-H Optimizer, as another example, builts a Digital Twin of your single generating unit and supports you to optimize the unit operational setpoints. It can be used in new built and older power plants. But as a consequence, increased efficiency will ensure a higher income. Hybrid and storage solutions Climate Change, increasing global energy demand and digitalization lead to new guiding principles for the energy market players. Siemens Energy’s Hybrid solutions are a way to address these new principles and co-create your decarbonized energy system for the transition into a more sustainable world. It covers the combination with existing assets, integration of renewables of all kinds and easy-made control of complex energy systems and enables our customers to integrate multiple technologies to one optimized energy system. Available storage solutions, such as batteries, capacitors, mechanical & thermal storage systems are available and can be incorporated in the hybrid solutions as well. This combination increases your flexibility and adaptation to the market needs. Hybrid Solutions New built and customized small hydro power plants Siemens Energy provides comprehensive solutions for small hydro power plants up to 30 megawatt unit capacity. We customize each solution regarding design and equipment to reach the best solution for each client. Our scope of supply covers all necessary components of a plant such as turbines or valves, generators, transformers, all kind of switchgears, the control system and turbine governors, protection systems and all power plants auxiliary systems. Hydro Power Modernizations and upgrades of existing small hydro power plants Many small hydro power plants built in the early 20th century have either been shut down or are operating inefficiently due to high levels of required manpower and outdated technology. This does not have to be the case, as modernizations or upgrades often pay themselves off in only a few years. Siemens Energy can draw on decades of experience in modernizing small hydro power plants. We offer tailor-made solutions with minimal budget requirements by combining existing equipment with the latest, most efficient components. We utilize suitable parts and equipment to minimize your re-investment costs. Due to our short delivery times and high degree of operational safety, we can execute your plant upgrade very economically. Comprehensive services for small hydro power plants The electrical equipment of small hydro power plants is subject to numerous stresses during its operation time. This may have an impact on a reliable operation. Siemens Energy can assist you in testing your equipment in order to reduce the risk of unscheduled outages. Dielectric standstill diagnostics for stator windings on generators We offer comprehensive standstill diagnostics for all generator models. Possible damage to, for example the stator winding can be detected at an early stage based on the analyses, and measures can even be determined during the inspection. In the standard case, standstill diagnostics include partial discharge, loss factor and insulation current measurements. The test scope can be supplemented with high-voltage testing or other criteria as required. Services on electrical equipment Siemens Energy offers all related services on the electrical equipment of hydro power plants, for example frequently testing and checking the protection system settings required by law earthing resistance measurement isolation resistance measurement Hydro Power Service Learn more Download our brochure 145 years of experience in hydro power Siemens Energy's first hydroelectric plant was already in operation in 1878. Our historical success stories highlight our extensive expertise in small hydro power. Find out more about our solutions Download your Brochure or our "Sipocon-H" flyer Brochure “Comprehensive solutions” PDF (1 MB) Download Flyer “Small hydro solution Sipocon-H” PDF (995 KB) Download Flyer “Sipocon-H Optimizer” PDF (188 KB) Download Small hydro power solution highlights As one of very few providers in the world, Siemens Energy has over 145 years of experience in hydro power. Learn more about some of our references worldwide. Power for 5,000 homes Originally commissioned in 1910 Siemens Energy modernized the plant in 2001 and supplied the complete control system including turbine automation for the optimal operation of the three units. A monitor control room with remote controlling, hazard alert and recording enables smooth and secure plant operation. With a power output of 2.4 megawatts, the plant can generate approximately 20 million kWh each year and thus supply electricity to 5,000 homes. Integration and regulation of intermitting energy sources High availability in start-ups and operation - The challange was, to fit the entire project into a cave that is almost 500 meter deep and accessed only by a tunnel of two kilometer length. The Siemens Energy expertise ensures a perfectly fit electrical solution. Two variable speed pumped turbines, curently the biggest of ist kind, delivered from Voith Hydro (a Voith and Siemens Energy Company) Reduction of “unused” water flows Original scheme was designed about 50 years ago with nowadays considered low flows causing increased spillage during wet season. In order to harness this "lost" water the customer EdP decided to add one complete new unit with ca. 400 m3 flow per second. Flexibility and experience of Siemens Energy project team ensured fast response to customer’s request One new Francis turbine delivered from Voith Hydro (a Voith and Siemens Energy Company) A cost-efficient investment Siemens Energy delivered a complete customized turnkey solution and was responsible for engineering, supply, assembly and commissioning of the plant. Siemens Energy’s scope of supply included the turbines, generators, and complete electrical equipment as well the entire plant control system. Due to state-of–the-art technology, the plant achieved very high efficiency and reliability, making it a cost-efficient investment. Cost competitive hydro power Siemens Energy delivered a complete customized turnkey solution and was responsible for engineering, supply, assembly and commissioning of the plant. Siemens Energy’s scope of supply included turbines, generators, switchgear, transformers, and switchboards as well as a control system with redundant Profibus coupling via ethernet. The plant now enables its operator to produce very cost-competitive environmental friendly, renewable energy. Replacement of existing technology Modernization of existing excitation system regarding capacity increase and flexibility Common survey together with the customer of the system and the existing documentation during the detailed engineering phase Adaption of tailor-made excitation system to site conditions with less components Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025