PacificLight, Singapore: Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) to improve power plant efficiency and power output Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read PacificLight, Singapore: Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) to improve power plant efficiency and power output Power Stories Modernization and upgrades PacificLight Power Pte Ltd is pioneering the newest technology for power plant efficiency at their 800MW facility in Jurong Island, Singapore, with the region's first Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP). Accelerating Singapore's carbon-lite future The challenge: Reduce carbon emissions and improve power plant efficiency PacificLight has operated an 800-megawatt combined cycle power plant on Jurong Island since 2014. The power plant meets 10% of Singapore’s electricity needs. It is the only power plant in Singapore registered as a Clean Development Mechanism project under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Committed to ensuring power plant operation in the most optimized and efficient way, PacificLight partnered with Siemens Energy to install ATEP (Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package) at its power plant on Julong Island. The solution: Installation of the ATEP upgrade for performance improvement and reduced environmental impact ATEP is an innovative upgrade solution that harnesses the latest blade technology from the HL-class gas turbine, designed to improve the power and efficiency of F-class gas turbines. The 4-stage upgrade of the power plant’s gas turbine blades involved the installation of new hot gas path parts. The ATEP blades are produced with advanced materials and manufacturing methods such as advanced profiling and aero features, ultra-efficient internal cooling and sealing, and optimized stage loading. This was the first ATEP project implemented in Asia. The first phase of the project was completed in 2023 and the final phase in February 2024. The benefit: First plant in Singapore to achieve 60% efficiency The project helped PLP win the first Fast Start service call from the Energy Market Authority of Singapore. After the upgrade, the power plant output increased by 30 megawatts with heat rate improving by 3.5%pts. Efficiency improved as well, making it the first power plant in Singapore to exceed 60% efficiency. In addition, the ATEP upgrade has resulted in an annual carbon emissions reduction of over 60,000 tonnes, equivalent to taking over 9,300 cars off the road every year. Contact us Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions or would like to learn more about this reference. Contact us Are you a Siemens Energy equipment owner? You can access exclusive documents relevant to your unit on the Customer Energy Portal. CEP log-in Read more September 30, 2023 5 min read High Desert Power Plant: Empowering California June 18, 2024 3 min read Keadby2 Power Station: the future of power generation in the UK See all stories Read more March 3, 2021 Jurong, Singapore Accelerating Singapore’s Carbon-Lite Future with The Region’s First Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) May 16, 2024 Berlin No power nap for Denmark: Siemens Energy wins major expansion agreement to future-proof Denmark’s electricity grid See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025