SST-600 Footprint turbine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications September 4, 2020 2 min read Reference: SST-600 Footprint turbine Story Transform conventional power Our Team Sebastian Beutel Dr. Sebastian Beutel is Head of the Global Sales Operations. sebastian.beutel@siemens-energy.com +49 123 456789 Increase Plant Reliability and Safety Product line: SST-600 steam turbine Project type: Turbine Footprint Year of completion: 2020 Project Description The customer operated a SST-600 steam turbine which was first commissioned in 2012. About 50.000 operating hours later, during the major overhaul in 2018, severe damages to the turbine were detected. In particular, the casing, the rotor, and the guide blade carrier were affected by erosion and corrosion. Due to the negative impact of these damages on the turbine safety and the operation's reliability, the customer contacted Siemens Energy at the beginning of 2019 to find the most suitable solution. Solution Siemens Energy recommended installing an identical footprint turbine regarding dimensions and thermodynamic design to profit from the possibility of re-using existing spare parts, foundation, piping as well as the control and protection system. In order to prevent the turbine from repeated corrosion and erosion, the new footprint turbine was manufactured with enhanced material. Furthermore, the efficient replacement of a complete turbine leads to a decrease in downtime (well plannable conversion since no surprising repair works have to be expected) and, therefore, to significant cost savings. The customer agreed to the modernization, and the turbine has already been manufactured in Germany due to its size and weight. Customer Value With a crucial delivery time of approximately 15 months the project will be completed soon. The lifetime of the steam turbine will be extended, the risk of unplanned shutdowns will be minimized and the new material will serve as prevention from further damages. Shown in below figure, considering production losses per day, the footprint concept is recommended as the most economical solution compared to turbine revamps and/or Overhaul & Repair. Related links Siemens myAdvisor.com Contact Get in touch Read more September 24, 2020 3 min read Reference: Front admission (SST-600) footprint turbine September 25, 2020 2 min read Footprint: New front admission steam turbine November 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025