Solutions by industry Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Energy solutions by industry We support companies and countries to reduce emissions across the energy landscape – for a more reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy system Driving the energy transition: Solutions for industries The energy landscape is transitioning towards a more sustainable, reliable, and efficient energy system while meeting the growing global demand for energy. This involves integrating renewable energy sources, modernizing power grids, enhancing energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and ensuring energy security and affordability. Energy demand keeps rising and needs to be met. Meeting this growing global energy demand while transitioning to a more sustainable world requires a complex journey. This jouney has to takes the individual requirements of each industry into consideration, from reliability to affordability and finally sustainability. But you're not without a partner. At Siemens Energy we work closely with our customers in many different industries to drive the energy transition, step by step, with our rich history of innovative technology, extensive energy experience and ambitious strategy to drive the decarbonization of global energy systems. Contact our industrial energy experts Energy transition in action with energy solutions for industries Shanghai Orient Champion Paper: Decarbonization trailblazer in the Chinese paper market Less emissions, more flexibility Shanghai Orient Champion Paper, one of China’s leading tissue paper manufacturers, made the switch from off-site coal-fired to on-site gas-fired power generation. As a result, energy efficiency increased, the carbon footprint shrank by 60 percent, and power costs dropped by a fifth. Read article Contact us for more information about energy solutions for industries Siemens Energy Customer Support +49 911 6505 6505 (Charges depending on provider) +49 180 524 25 71 (Charges depending on provider; from the German fixed network € 0.14/min. and from the German mobile phone networks max. € 0.42/min.) Contact us Select your industry: Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas: solutions for safe, efficient and reliable operation Marine Data center power solutions LNG gas turbines Offshore fixed gas turbines Offshore floating gas turbines Onshore production gas turbines Onshore pipeline gas turbines Refining petrochemical gas turbines Pulp and paper Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025