Power Transformers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Power transformers Transforming the energy landscape: the critical role of power transformers In the face of climate change and the urgent call for sustainable solutions, our global energy landscape is witnessing profound transformations. These shifts are largely dictated by the the so-called four D's : growing Demand , progressive Decentralization , active Decarbonization , and rapid Digitalization . Power transformers act as the pivotal component in this transformative journey. They serve as the robust link facilitating the seamless transition from conventional energy sources to sustainable alternatives. By efficiently transmitting power over extended distances, they address the escalating demand and support decentralization through the enablement of distributed power generation. Furthermore, power transformers are key players in the active pursuit of decarbonization, playing an indispensable role in integrating renewable energy sources into the grid. In this era of digitalization, smartly-equipped power transformers boost grid reliability and resilience. They enable real-time monitoring and swift response to grid irregularities, ensuring a stable and sustainable power supply for our future. We connect energy systems and bring power from where it’s generated to where it’s needed. Large power transformers are expertly engineered to convert voltage levels and optimize power plants and transmission networks. Learn more Medium power transformers bridge the gap between transmission and distribution networks worldwide, a key player in the global energy transition. Learn more Transformer for industrial applications are tailor-made and designed to withstand the harshest conditions. Our high-current industrial application (HCIA) transformers provide power for electrolysis, where current itself is a major resource. Contact us We ensure efficient power grid operations through reliability, availability and stability – anywhere, anytime Phase-shifting transformers are designed to optimize power flow and maximize the efficiency of your existing hardware. Experience a leap in grid stability and flexibility with our compact, noise-minimized design capable of ≤ 2000 MVA and ≤ 765 kV. Discover more HVDC converter transformers are the essential solution for highly efficient bulk power transmission in both offshore and onshore grid connections. Leveraging extensive expertise and experience, we offer superior transformers for HVDC Classic and HVDC Plus schemes. Discover more Shunt- & series reactors enhance grid efficiency and ensure network stability in the rapidly evolving energy sector. Discover more about our comprehensive range of reactors – from ≤10 MVAr to 300 MVAr (33 kV to 800 kV) – by clicking Discover more Mobile resilience transformers ensure seamless power continuity in the face of unforeseen emergencies. These highly flexible, plug-and-play units are meticulously engineered for swift response, offering dependable solutions during emergency scenarios or planned maintenance. Discover more In addition to our power transformer offerings, Siemens Energy also provides a specialized range of transformers for renewables, traction, and distribution applications each designed to support the energy transition with unparalleled efficiency and reliability. Transformers Transformer Resilience: Mastering DC Bias through Proactive DC Compensation DC Compensation: The Smart Solution for Transformer Protection Elevate transformer performance with our state-of-the-art DC application. The video on the left showcases our compact, high-efficiency solution engineered to safeguard transformers from the adverse effects of direct current in the power grid. We address complex challenges, such as asymmetric loading, with a sophisticated yet simple approach that transcends outdated alternatives like DC blockers, noise protection walls, and costly transformer replacements. Learn how our innovative DC application can fortify your transformer resilience, by exploring the materials below. Discover the Impact of DC Bias on Your Transformers Detect DC Bias with Our App Effectively Eliminate DC Bias DC bias occurs when direct current (DC) infiltrates an alternating current (AC) system, potentially causing distortion and inefficiency. Understanding and addressing DC bias is crucial for maintaining the integrity and performance of electrical systems, particularly transformers. Watch Our DC Bias Video For a clear understanding of DC bias, watch our short explainer video. Tap the button below to start viewing. Identify DC bias quickly using our free Direct Current Detector app. Measure noise levels on your smartphone to ensure your transformers remain in optimal condition. Learn More About DC Detection For detailed information on how our app works, check out our informative flyer. Use the App Get the Flyer More information about DC diagnostics Refine your approach to DC Bias with our focused OnePager. Essential technical insights, distilled for clarity and impact. Proactive DC Bias Protection for Transformers Learn how to effectively overcome DC Bias challenges in your electronic systems. Our recent article offers exclusive insights for professionals seeking reliable solutions. Download the OnePager Access the Article Pioneering transformer innovations for a sustainable future Explore our Transformer Innovation Highlights, where engineering brilliance meets sustainability and grid resilience. Dive into the world of advanced transformer solutions, meticulously designed for superior performance and minimal environmental impact. Discover how our innovative technologies are shaping the future of power transmission and distribution. Pretact ® Concept maximizes the resilience of power grids. It includes a comprehensive set of modular features to prevent and protect transformers and high-voltage products from operational issues as well as against natural disasters or forced outages. In addition, highly flexible plug and play "mobile resilience units" react quickly in case of an emergency or planned maintenance. Learn more Pretact ® Ecosafety his world's first concept combines with ingenuity of approved and newly developed technologies bringing environment, health and safety in substations to a new level. With this unique overall fire and explosion safe substation solution we can increase resilience and sustainability as well as minimize any harm to nature and human beings. Learn more Alternative insulation fluids Alternative fluids are an effective lever to increase sustainability and safety of transmission and distribution products. Our extensive and in-depth research in our own labs allows us to fill transformers for all kinds of applications and even HVDC transformers with natural and synthetic ester insulation instead of mineral oil. Ester insulation offers considerable benefits to grid operators. They are not only readily biodegradable but have additional advantages due to their specific technical characteristics. Learn more Sustainable transformers Siemens Energy is ardently committed to decarbonization, persistently striving for sustainability within our supply chain and the core components of our transformers. We actively cultivate partnerships with suppliers and customers, collaboratively devising step- by-step solutions. Our decarbonization efforts are focused on reducing CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain. Furthermore, we're progressively working on establishing a circular economy, aiming to set new industry standards in the process. Learn more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025