SGen-1000A generator series Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGen-100A and SGen-1000A Excellent performance and outstanding efficiency Proven air-cooled generators for industrial and large power applications Our air-cooled generator series offers you a competitive advantage by providing ratings of up to 370 MVA with operationally proven technology. We continuously improve our generators and focus on increased reliability, improved serviceability, high efficiency, and optimum plant integration. Our generator designs benefit from more than 150 years of engineering experience going back to the invention of the electrical generator by Werner von Siemens in 1866. SGen-100A Efficient generator for industrial applications: 25 - 370 MVA. Learn more about SGen-100A SGen-1000A Reliable generator for large utility power plants: 180 - 370 MVA. Learn more about SGen-1000A Do you have a question regarding our generators and services for them? Contact us Highlights of the SGen-1000A series generator Increased performance The entire SGen-1000A series is optimized for world-class efficiency of up to 98.9% and stability during load changes and flexible operation. They are designed for 10,000 start/stop cycles during their operational life, making them a cost-effective alternative to hydrogen- or water-cooled generators for industrial applications up to 370 MVA. Modular design for a perfect fit Our experts have designed a product line that meets all major market and application requirements. By applying our modular design philosophy and using pre-designed options, we can customize your generator the way you need it with minimum lead time. Customer-friendly erection and commissioning The SGen-1000A series is designed and manufactured for ease of use. Our robust and proven design features pre-assembled components to shorten the commissioning period. The self-supporting structure of the base frame with integrated cover, machine auxiliaries, and exciter set facilitates easy on-site installation. Outstanding quality There are more than 1,000 air-cooled generators in operation. Our design, engineering, sales, project management, manufacturing and testing experts work closely together in one location in Erfurt, Germany. By using the latest manufacturing technology and process automation we ensure outstanding quality. Robust design Flexibility and customization Service and maintenance Remote Diagnostic Service Robust design Mechanical forces from operation and transient events, such as short circuits, are safely transmitted from the stator core to the base frame and foundation via welded-on spring elements. The self-supporting structure of the base frame with integrated cover, machine auxiliaries and exciter set allows for easy on-site installation. MICALASTIC® insulation technology The MICALASTIC® high-voltage insulation of the generator stator coils enables a maintenance-free stator core. Innovative manufacturing technology We use state-of-the-art manufacturing technology for high quality and precision. Flexibility and customization Our modular design philosophy, using pre-designed options, ensures that we can customize your generator the way you need it. The generator matches your turbine's performance and provides margin for operational flexibility. Brushless or static excitation for your individual application You can choose between either rotating brushless exciter machines with stationary field exciter and rotating bridge connector rectifier or static excitation using collector rings with power taken from stationary excitation equipment for your application. Adaptable coupling design Coupling design can be adapted to different turbine types and any manufacturer's turbine equipment. Service and maintenance Our proven installation and maintenance concept sets a benchmark in reliability and availability. Professional installation  ensures world-class availability and reliability for the entire lifecycle of the generator. For minimized downtime, we align the maintenance intervals of the generator with those of the turbine. Short construction and commissioning times Our generators are designed for easy installation. With their extensive experience in commissioning, our certified engineers can help you to achieve even faster start-up times and smooth operation. Flexible maintenance and service – where and when you need it You can benefit from the close collaboration between service, engineering and manufacturing teams through a network of factories and service centers strategically located throughout the world. We offer service solutions to increase the efficiency, reliability and availability of your assets. Remote Diagnostic Service Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) help you to optimize your asset production by turning data into value. In a proactive approach, we monitor the complete range of oil and gas, and industrial rotating equipment in more than 80 countries to identify a potential problem before it impacts operation. We aim to maximize the availability and reliability of our customers' installed base. The benefits of our Remote Diagnostic Service RDS is installed easily and quickly. It offers fast, secure online help and advanced troubleshooting without the need for a site visit. Rotor dynamic data will be correlated and analyzed with respect to operational data. Continuous and secure data exchange Turning data into value for our customers is only possible through continuous and secure data exchange. We combine your operational excellence with our OEM engineering knowledge. Daily monitoring by remote diagnostic engineers – supported by advanced analytic software – is the key. Highlights of our SGen-100A-2P The SGen-100A is suitable for the following applications and industries: Fact Sheet 2-pool industrial generator Fact Sheet 4-pole industrial generator Technology overview Gas and steam applications Oil and gas applications Footprint™ generators Synchronous condenser Technology overview Our generators are designed using our building-block system with optimized diameter and length sizing to achieve perfect alignment with your plant and the grid requirements. Grid studies can be performed. Many more options are available including variants of the cooling system and the position of the generator leads. All parts and connections are readily accessible and the enclosure can be easily removed for installation or maintenance. High-voltage 3-phase electrical generator with a cylindrical rotor and maintenance-free stator core. The base design is compliant with IEC and IEEE/ANSI standards and, optionally, many others. Direct radial air cooling of the rotor winding with uniform temperature distribution using Computer Fluid Dynamics (CFD) analysis ensures optimized use of material and increased efficiency for optimal performance. Air-cooled generators fit to most steam and gas turbines on the market Flexible gas and steam power plants will remain a key component of a demand-driven power supply. They form the solid foundation of a diverse and clean energy mix – indispensable for meeting the world's current and future challenges. Our air-cooled generators complement the turbine packages of any manufacturer and meet grid and environmental requirements as well as specific customer needs. Generators for steam power plants Our generators can be flexibly integrated into combined cycle power plants (CCPP), combined heat and power (CHP) and industrial power plants. Generators for gas-fired power plants We supply generators for large simple or combined cycle power plants, suitable for peak, intermediate or base load duty, as well as for cogeneration applications. Operational safety and special explosion protection solutions Oil and gas power applications, especially offshore applications, require low-weight generators with explosion protection solutions (e.g. pressurized or non-sparking) and entail stringent electrical standards. We can supply solutions for a broad variety of applications. Generators for onshore use You can benefit from our proven track record in oil and gas applications ranging from oil fields and refineries to the petrochemical industry. Generators for offshore use Our generators comply with recognized standards all over the world (e.g., API, IEEE, IEC) as well as specifications set by customers such as Saudi Aramco, Shell and BP. Replacement of older, high-maintenance generators With our Footprint™ generator concept we offer solutions to replace older, high-maintenance water-, hydrogen- or air-cooled generators with state-of-the-art SGen-100A-2P generators. The modular design of our generators can be adapted to match existing foundations and plant interfaces to minimize reconstruction costs and installation time. This can be a time- and cost-effective alternative to repairing an existing generator. Technical benefits Available for various types of power plants, our generators can be efficiently adapted to local site conditions. In addition, they can increase the rated power and efficiency of a power plant. By replacing the older equipment, you also reduce the risk of finding unexpected signs of aging or damage in the existing generator. For the replacement of non-OEM equipment, 3D measurement is available to adapt existing foundations. Reduced cost The existing foundation and electrical connections as well as the axial shaft center height can be re-used. When an aging water- or hydrogen-cooled generator is replaced, existing high-maintenance auxiliaries will be reduced. Operating and maintenance costs can be reduced and the potential service life will be extended. Transmission grid stabilization Rotating synchronous condensers are a proven, reliable solution for ancillary grid services guaranteeing frequency and voltage stability, plus the ability to ride through grid disturbances. Today’s emerging power systems are dominated by converter connected renewable power producers which are susceptible to decreased short circuit power and system inertia, making them more sensitive to electrical faults and sudden load imbalances. Rotating synchronous condensers are significantly less sensitive to these issues. Grid benefits Synchronous condensers have the unique ability to respond inherently without any time delay to fault or load imbalance events. They increase the short circuit power by their overload capability and improve the rate of change of frequency (RoCoF) by the physical inertia contribution. Furthermore synchronous condensers provide dynamic voltage control by supplying and absorbing reactive power to and from the grid. Synchronous condensers A synchronous condenser solution comprises a generator connected to the high voltage network through a transformer. It is started by either an electric motor or a static frequency converter. Once synchronized with the network, the generator behaves like a synchronous motor without load, compensating reactive power and stabilizing the system, in case of a fault or imbalance events. Technical data SGen-100A  2P series SGen-1000A series SGen5-100A SGen6-100A Frequency 50 Hz 60 Hz Apparent power 25–370 MVA 25–370 MVA Efficiency up to 98.9% up to 98.9% Designed for power factor 0.80 0.85 Terminal voltage 6.3–15.75 kV 6.3–15.75 kV SGen5-1000A SGen6-1000A Frequency 50 Hz 60 Hz Apparent power 180–370 MVA 180–370 MVA Efficiency up to 98.9% up to 98.9% Designed for power factor 0.80 0.85 Terminal voltage 10.5–20 kV 10.5–20 kV Proven in commercial operation: Our generator reference highlights More than 1,000 SGen-100A-2P/SGen-1000A generators are in commercial operation around the globe. Nevinnomisskaya DSPS, Russia (2009) Customer: Power Machines Power output: 227 MW Apparent power: 227 MVA Terminal voltage: 15.75 kV Frequency: 50 Hz Scope: 1 x SGT5-4000F gas turbine, 1 x SGen5-1000A generator, and SPPA-T3000 I&C system FPCC Mai-Liao, Taiwan (2013/2015) Original OEM: Brush Power output: 3 x 105 MVA Frequency: 60 Hz Terminal voltage: 11 kV Scope: SGen-100A-2P generator BASF Schwarzheide, Germany (2022) Modernization and upgrade of 30years old generator (oOEM) Revamped direction of rotation optimizing the flow side inlet channels in the area of the rotor winding Adjusted dimensioning of individual components for higher currents and modified the base frame. Read more Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025