SWM Geothermal plants in Munich Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read SWM, Germany: Sustainability for geothermal plants with Omnivise T3000 control system Reference Automation Modernization and upgrades Control systems Instrumentation and control Geothermal energy The proven I&C system enables central control of all automation tasks from the main control room at Stadtwerke München for a sustainable energy and heat supply. Contact us “ Thanks to the excellent cooperation with Siemens Energy in implementing the Omnivise T3000 control system, another milestone was reached in creating a sustainable, reliable, and efficient energy site. Wolfgang Lex System Engineer Stadtwerke München The customer challenge: Integration of three district heating networks into control system At Stadtwerke München (Munich’s City Utilities), Germany's largest geothermal plant with six drillings between 2,670 and 3,140 meters deep has been in trial operation since 2021. To ensure high availability, the three drilling pairs, or doublets, are divided among three heat lines. The total plant currently has a thermal output of 50 megawatts. In full operation this plant produces enough heat to supply 80,000 residents in an environmentally friendly way. The Siemens Energy Team was contracted to implement the Omnivise T3000 control system at the South district heating plant, including all control functions and the integration into the plant’s existing network setup. A particular challenge here was the integration of the plant into the three existing district heating networks, each with different pressure systems. For this purpose, the team installed a complex district heating network switchover, which is also controlled by the Siemens Energy control system. To avoid unnecessary high load transients as well as a lot of startups and shutdowns of the sensitive submersible centrifugal pump, the Omnivise T3000 control system uses a strong control for the thermal water system. The solution: Reliable and flexible operation for secure heat supply To ensure high availability, the three heat lines have been divided in pairs among the three doublets. Each doublet is controlled by a highly redundant automation unit. A bypass operation is used to avoid high load transients as well as fast regulations to increase the lifetime of the sensitive pump. The complete plant is controlled by only a few operators in the main control room. This allows the customer to optimize the energy production and heat distribution of all units at the site. This is possible due to the multi-unit functionality of Omnivise T3000 which allows the operators to control each unit from any workstation. At a later stage the five main units at the site will have an output of approximately 700 MW electric and 800 MW thermal, all from one main control room. All 19 Omnivise T3000 systems are interconnected to ensure reliable data exchange and therefore a secure heat supply for the city of Munich. The decisive factor for SWM in integrating the geothermal plant into the existing system was not only the reliability of Omnivise T3000, but also its flexibility. For the operation of the geothermal plant, various couplings to external systems were established, such as an IEC 61850 switchgear coupling and various Modbus TCP/IP and Modbus RTU (RS 485) connections. Find out more about the products and services applied: Omnivise T3000 Control system Contact us The benefits: Central control of all automation tasks from the main control room Easy to understand automation functions for the operating personnel due to the clear FBD plans User-friendly HMI and easy operability of the proven control technology Contact us With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025