Phase-shifting Transformers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Phase-shifting transformers The transformative role of phase shifters in the energy transition Phase shifting transformers are key to creating balance within and between power networks. With their capability to provide active power flow control, phase shifters not only improve the stability and flexibility of grids but also maximize the utility of existing hardware. In our rapidly evolving energy landscape marked by an increase in renewable power plants and complex power generation scenarios, phase shifters mitigate the challenges of unwanted power flows, ensure grid stability, and prevent overloads. A holistic approach: from customer challenge to energization on site Siemens Energy has established a service that goes beyond finetuning customer requirements. Subject-matter specialists run grid studies that go toward building a comprehensive profile to answer the key question: What capabilities does the phase shifter need to solve the customer’s pain points? Defining the specs Once specifications have been set, a tender can only achieve so much in ensuring a cost-efficient result. Therefore, Siemens Energy offers customers a collaborative and iterative approach to defining specifications. The experts share their insights into which combinations of specifications drive cost and performance, while the customer’s network planners have a clear picture of the required capabilities of their new transformer. This Siemens Energy approach combines expertises to give customers a perfectly tailored transformer – the most cost-efficient and robust solution to the performance needed. Transcending the specs This holistic approach ensures that customer specific needs and situations affect all decisions, from the very first project stage to the energization on site. Our unique perspective produces phase-shifters, which not only are built to specs, but come with greater flexibility in addressing the customer’s challenges. Customers benefit from… more than 50 years of experience in phase-shifter design specialist designers and phase-shifter design tools design rules and tools with a track record of excellent test results and highest ratings a multitude of options, from dual-tank solutions with “faltenbalg” to oil-oil bushings Unlock profitable power management with Siemens Energy's phase shifters Siemens Energy's phase shifters offer a cost-effective solution for the challenges posed by diverse power grids. They prevent costly grid extensions by controlling power flow, mitigating loop flows, and enabling effective load distribution. Renowned for their reliability, our phase shifters enhance transmission capacity and grid stability. They provide competitive advantages at both the network and operator levels, increasing grid stability, flexibility, and independence. For operators, they offer efficient power control, voltage regulation, and the ability to adjust active power loading of specific lines, preventing line overloads and reducing loop flows. Siemens Energy is your partner for efficient power flow control solutions, committed to a sustainable future. Why Siemens Energy? Our competitive edge in phase shifting technology As a distinguished player in phase shifting technology, Siemens Energy offers solutions that are efficient, reliable, and custom-made. Our expertise is rooted in superior engineering skills, a widespread global manufacturing network, and a wealth of experience. Our engineers leverage state-of-the-art technology to design phase shifters that meet stringent standards. Thanks to our extensive global network, we ensure the delivery of top-quality phase shifting transformers to any location worldwide. Our offerings are tailored to each client's unique needs, including two-core and single-core transformers. Our commitment to quality extends to our testing process. Siemens Energy's spacious test bays ensure reliable performance by accommodating fully-assembled units for rigorous testing, even the towering giants such as dual-tank phase shifters. These facilities can accommodate test objects. Choose Siemens Energy for resilient and efficient power flow control solutions, anchored by our unwavering dedication to a sustainable future. Discover more Downloads Use case providing grid stability PDF (254 KB) Download Use case next level of eco-friendliness PDF (305 KB) Download Flyer PDF (305 KB) Download You have questions? We got the answer! We organize webinars and other events to give grid operators an opportunity to ask specific questions about phase-shifters. Here are examples from our latest Q&A session. What tap changers and controllers do I need for phase-shifters? Standard substation transformer tap changers are used in phase shifters, as well. However, the designer has to consider the overexcitation in retard operation, that is to say, the increased voltage across RW. According to the established standard, a tap changer must be able to switch 2x the rated current. Overexcitation often necessitates limiting the overload. You can use a standard TAPCON controller. Can I use a thyristor-assisted tap changer (or a hybrid electronic tap changer) instead of the mechanical on-load tap changer (OLTC)? And how long does the mechanical OLTC need for one step? Currently, there is no thyristor tap changer for large power transformers. The standard for a switch is appr. 5.4 sec/tapWith fast-switiching gear the value drops to 2.7sec/tap. Which system studies do I need to define PST specifications? You will need studies on Load Flow, Short Circuit, Dynamic, and Switching Transient & Protection. You may also require more specialized studies for any number of reasons, such as the particular region, in which you are located. For example, if the lines in the region are not transposed, you will need to conduct an Unbalanced Load Flow Study. Other studies may focus on the impact on harmonic power flow or subsynchronous oscillations. Are there PSTs available at 400 kV or 765 kV? 400kV, yes, but we have not yet seen a 765/765kV PST. However, there are 765/400kV auto transformers with a perpendicular voltage component to the common neutral. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025