SGT-600 Industrial gas turbine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGT-600 gas turbine A perfect choice: High fuel flexibility and maximized uptime The SGT-600 combines robustness with an excellent maintenance program for high availability and low costs for operation. With high reliability, excellent fuel flexibility, and third-generation DLE technology, the SGT-600 is a perfect choice for industrial power generation in combined heat and power (CHP), combined circle power plants (CCPP), onshore oil and gas power generation, and mechanical drives, offering efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Explore our interactive gas turbine portfolio template-360-siemens Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Highlights of the SGT-600 gas turbine High fuel flexibility The SGT-600 offers best-in-class fuel flexiblity that allows for high content of inert gases, hydrogen and heavy hydrocarbons: Ethane 100% Propane 100% Butanes and heavy alkanes 15% Hydrogen up to 75% Nitrogen 40% H₂S ≤ 3% Third-generation DLE system The SGT-600 features a third-generation dual-fuel Dry Low Emissions (DLE) combustion system: NOₓ emissions level < 9 vppm CO emissions level  < 9 vppm Turn down 50% load Same DLE system for dual and liquid operation NOₓ emissions on liquid fuels < 63 ppmvd CO emissions on liquid fuels < 10 ppmvd Turn down 50% on liquid fuels Dual-fuel DLE capability with fuel changeover capability (gas to liquid fuel and liquid fuel to gas) on load Maximized uptime The SGT-600 features a reliable, robust and easily maintainable design for maximized uptime. Reliability > 99% On-site or off-site maintenance 24-hour swap capability 14 maintenance days in 17 years 34,000 equivalent operating hours (EOH) between hot section inspections Part load operation increases the time between overhauls High lifetime profitability Thanks to a long lifetime with maximized uptime, low life cycle cost and easy servicability, the SGT-600 offers you a high lifetime profitability. The robust industrial design offers a low degradation over time. Core engine Package solutions Power plants Service Fuels Emissions Ingenious design to the core The SGT-600 offers you best-in-class availability thanks to a robust and reliable design. The compact twin-shaft engine is easy to maintain and allows for flexible opeation. Using the same design for power generation and mechanical drive increases the operational experience. Compressor The SGT-600 core engine is equipped with a 10-stage flow transonic compressor. It includes variable guide vanes to ensure robust operability. The design is optimized to deliver high performance across a wide range of operating conditions. Free power turbine The 2-stage uncooled free power turbine provides a nominal shaft speed of up to 7,700 rpm. It can operate at 50 to 105% of the nominal speed for mechanical drive. The blades feature interlocking shrouds to enhance robustness. SGT-600 power generation and mechanical drive packages Thanks to the compact architecture, the SGT-600 package offers you a small footprint. The package has a modular and flexible design and features single-lift capability. The driver for both power generation and mechanical drive package is the same. A gas turbine package includes: Gas turbine, enclosure, base frame, air intake, exhaust, lubricating systems, starter system, vibration monitoring system, firefighting system, package ventilation system, instrumentation, gas detection, fuel systems, gearbox (if needed). Power generation package The SGT-600’s ability to handle sudden load changes and its high exhaust temperature make it ideal for simple cycle, combined cycle, cogeneration, and other heating applications. Small footprint for easy fitting Modular and flexible package design Single-lift capability Mechanical drive package The SGT-600 mechanical drive packages offer long lifecycles and can withstand extreme climates ranging from desert heat to arctic cold, oil platforms, and harsh industrial environments. Variable power turbine speed: 50 to 105% High load on low-power turbine speed Maintains efficiency at part load Low emissions at part load SGT-600-based power plants For combined cycle and cogeneration (combined heat and power – CHP), we offer a broad range of power plant configurations and scopes based on the SGT-600 gas turbine. For combined cycle, 1x1 or 2x1 configurations are part of the standardized portfolio. Excellent CC and CHP efficiency Good combined cycle performance: In a 2x1 combined cycle configuration, the power output is 74.2 MW(e) at a net plant efficiency of 51.6%. Comprehensive services to support you Our comprehensive portfolio of services provides low life cycle cost and optimum performance throughout the turbine’s life cycle: Long Term Programs (LTP), overhaul service, field service, spare parts, service exchange, remote diagnostic service, and modernization and upgrades. With only 14 scheduled maintenance days over a 17-year service cycle, the SGT-600 provides highest operational availability. Whether scheduled service or short-term support, our specialists are there for you, on-site or off-site all over the world. Our 24-hour global help desk ensures you peace of mind. Easy on-/off-site maintenance The SGT-600 is designed to maximize serviceability. It allows for on-site maintenance as well as gas generator removal for off-site maintenance. Gas generator swap can be completed within 24 hours. Remote diagnostic service Our remote diagnostic service aids in early fault detection and outage prevention. It encompasses online monitoring, expert performance data analysis, and fleet data comparisons. Designed for easy serviceability Burners are accessible from the outside for easy replacement. Compressor casing is horizontally split, and the turbine casing is vertically split between gas generator and power turbine. Multipe boroscope holes allow for internal visual inspection of the compressor. High fuel flexibility The SGT-600 offers best-in-class fuel flexibility that allows for high content of inert gases, hydrogen and heavy hydrocarbons: Ethane 100% Propane 100% Butanes and heavy alkanes 15% Hydrogen up to 60% Nitrogen 40% H₂S 3.5% Features: Available with both conventional and DLE combustion systems Gaseous and liquid fuels on-load changeover Third-generation DLE system Best-in-class NOₓ emission levels The SGT-600 requires low gas supply pressure at site: 24.5 bar(a) / 355.5 psi(a). Low emission capability The combustor and burner design give world-class emission performance over a wide load range and are capable of ≤ 9 ppmvd NOₓ emission levels. Low emission levels are also received on liquid fuel without need of water injection. Emissions for 100 – 50% load, NOₓ at 15% O₂: Natural gas: ≤ 9 ppmv Diesel No. 2: ≤ 63 – 38 ppmv Emissions for 100 – 50% load, CO at 15% O₂: Natural gas: ≤  9 – 80 ppmv Diesel No. 2: ≤ 10 – 80 ppmv (Emissions depend upon site conditions, required load range and other project-specific data.) Technical data Simple cycle power generation Combined cycle power generation Mechanical drive Physical dimensions Performance data for simple cycle power generation Gross power output 24.5 MW(e) Fuel¹ Natural gas, dual fuel Frequency 50/60 Hz Gross efficiency 33.6% Gross heat rate 10,720 kJ/kWh (10,161 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 7,700 rpm Pressure ratio 14.0 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 81.3 kg/s (179.2 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 543 °C (1,009 °F) NOₓ emissions² ≤ 9 ppmvd All performance values are based on standard design, ISO ambient conditions and natural gas fuel. No intake or exhaust loss. | ¹1 Natural gas, other gases within specification, liquid fuel (Diesel No. 2) and dual fuel (gas and liquid)  | ²NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) SCC-600: Performance data for combined cycle power generation Combined cycle power plant SCC-600 1x1 SCC-600 2x1 Gross power output 36.5 MW(e) 74.2 MW(e) Gross plant efficiency 50.7% 51.6% Gross heat rate 7,105 kJ/kWh (6,734 Btu/kWh) 6,981 kJ/kWh (6,616 Btu/kWh) Number of gas turbines 1 2 Note: All combined cycle performance is based on 2 pressure, no reheat. SGT-600: Performance data for mechanical drive Gross power output 25.2 MW Fuel¹ Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Gross efficiency 34.6% Gross heat rate 10,390 kJ/kWh (9,848 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 3,850 – 8,085 rpm Pressure ratio 14.0 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 81.3 kg/s (179.2 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 543 °C (1,009 °F) NOₓ emissions² ≤ 9 ppmvd All performance values are based on standard design, ISO ambient conditions and natural gas fuel. No intake or exhaust loss. | ¹ Natural gas, other gases within specification, liquid fuel (Diesel No. 2) and dual fuel (gas and liquid)  Change turbine speed to: 3,850-8,085 | ²NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) Physical dimensions and weight Dimensions exclude inlet filter housing and exhaust stack. For power generation, the AC generator is included. For mechanical drive, the driven equipment is excluded. The SGT-600 is suitable for the following applications and industries: Find out more about our gas turbine offerings In our download section, you can find brochures, technical papers, and more. Or you can contact us directly for specific inquiries. Brochures Gas turbine portfolio (interactive PDF) PDF (18 MB) Download Articles and Papers Technical papers SGT-600 Poster PDF (178 KB) Download Impressive fleet experience: SGT-600 reference highlights More than 350 units have been sold with over 12 million equivalent operating hours, and 185,000 equivalent operating hours for the fleet-leading gas turbine. Sao Paolo, Brazil (2022) Customer: Braskem S.A. Chemical industry 2x SGT-600 PG with erd generation DLE system for up to 60% H2 co-firing at 25ppm Nox Read more Bahia Blanca, Argentina (2015) Customer: Profertil S.A. | YPF S.A. + Agrium Inc. Scope: 1 x SGT-600 gas turbine, STC-GV (80-6) compressor, generator, NEM heat recovery steam generator Increase in efficiency and production of urea by 11% and ammonia by 9% using the same amount of energy Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (2006) Customer: Yamama Saudi Cement Company Scope: 9 x dual-fuel SGT-600 gas turbines Harsh environmental conditions like high ambient temperatures, blown sand and mineral dust Tiszaújváros, Hungary (2003) Customer: TVK Ltd Scope: 1 x SGT-600 gas turbine and 1 x SGT-700 gas turbine Provides power and process steam for the chemical industry Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025