Additive Manufacturing Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Additive Manufacturing for the Energy Industry AM opens up huge opportunities by revolutionizing the manufacturing and repair of components Download the comprehensive AM overview Fast, efficient, flexible: AM makes the difference Be it rapid prototyping or manufacturing parts for aero-derivative, gas and steam turbines or compressors, they can be designed faster, with increased flexibility, better materials, and optimized efficiency. This way, 3D printing enables cutting edge technologies with reduced time-to-market and quick upgrading of existing assets. Being both a pioneer and a leader in the industrialization of AM, Siemens Energy is in an excellent position to give its customers the products and tools they need for the next generation of power products. Contact for more information Rikardo Nilsson Additive Manufacturing Sales ricardo.nilsson@siemens-energy.com +49 173 63 56 224 What’s up in AM? BMBF project "IDEA" - Two production lines with exemplary character for industrial 3D printing In the BMBF joint project "IDEA", partners from industry and research developed and built two production lines for the automated,  additive manufacturing of gas turbines and metal components. Siemens Energy and AT Toolcraft AG produced components using 3D-printing to demonste how not only large corporations, but also SMEs can economically utilize additive manufacturing for individualized components in medium batch sizes. Fraunhofer ILT's Laser Power Bed Fusion process and digital engineering along the entire product development chain play an important role in optimizing the components. Read the press release Investment in new digital platform for on-demand additive manufacturing services Additive manufacturing (AM) has taken on a major role in the development and production of components and spare parts for Siemens Energy in recent years. In addition to setting up its own AM production lines and acquiring AM service provider Materials Solutions in 2016, the company is now expanding its commitment in this area with its investment in the start-up MakerVerse . Read the press release Our Portfolio Rapid Prototyping Parts can be rapidly printed and checked for certain properties before serial production beings, massively speeding up innovation cycles. Rapid Repair With AM, parts for industrial gas turbines and compressors can be repaired up to 60% faster and even upgraded to the latest part design. Spare Parts on Demand Traditional stockpiling of parts becomes a thing of the past. Since an AM-printer can precisely reproduce many parts from 3D-datasets, there is no need to have them physically on hand. Rapid Manufacturing AM enables the use of new materials and the creation of innovative parts with higher performance and new product features, while at the same reducing time lead times. AM in Sound and Vision Watch more videos: News and Stories Towards a decarbonized future: 3D-printing innovations for gas turbines Relying on each other: A successful cooperation between Siemens Energy and E.ON Energy Pro ... AM Enables Advanded Blade Tip Repair and Upgrade Additive Manufacturing and repair experts at Siemens Energy have developed a solution to ... Additive Manufacturing is transforming the satellite business Ole Geisen, Head of Engineering Services AM for Siemens Energym ist sure that AM is not only a temporary trend.Read more in the current issue of Satellite Pro Middle East Magazine (Page 30 ff) Read more President Biden's AM Forward Launch Event in Hamilton, Ohio Rich Voorberg, President of North America for Siemens Energy, joined President Biden and ... AM projects at the Werner-von-Siemens Centre Two AM research projects, High Temperature Applications (HTA) 2.0 and Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) 2.0, have been kicked-off in summer 2020 and, besides all odds of the pandemic crisis, are successfully reporting the first milestones already. Read more Spare parts "on the fly" Equinor used a drone tof fly a 3D-printed part for the lifeboat system from the Mongstad base to the Troll A platform in the North Sea. Read more The future of additive manufacturing The Siemens Energy AM Monitor’s machine learning algorithms impartially evaluate the recoating during the printing of a 3D-printed component. Read more How does additive manufacturing bring speed to decarb journey Our AM masterminds Markus Seibold and Vladimir Navrotsky joined forces and eplained the role of additive manufacturing for the decarbonization journae. Read the latest article at TURBOMACHINERY INTERNATIONAL online. Read more Nerdy about 3D printing Joel Telling - successful Youtuber and 3D Nerd - visited the Goerlitz AM workshop.Watch his latest video! Read more What does it take to run a successful AM business Together with IQPC we also conducted an exclusive survey and asked industry experts how they rate the status of AM in their business enviroments. Read more Stack Up the Layers Radial impellers play an integral role in the performance and reliability of turbocompressors. AM can optimize the production of centrifugal compressors. Read more ‘Printing out of the box’ to reduce downtime for gas turbines Siemens Energy recently began its Onsite Specialty Services that includes welding and coating technologies and CNC and robotic on-site machining. The company’s additive manufacturing capabilities comprise mechanized cladding, micro laser welding, cold spray silver coating and laser metal deposition. Read more IDEA – Additive Manufacturing for Series Production The inauguration of the prototype of a serial production line at the gas turbine factory in Berlin marks an important milestone for the IDEA project. It is part of the initiative “Line integration of additive manufacturing processes”, funded by German Ministry of Education and Research. Read more AM Success Stories Siemens Energy is driving the industrialization and commercialization of AM processes. Here are some examples of 3D printed parts working in the real world. 3D-printed vanes proved successful DREWAG AG operates a 25-year-old CCPP with three Siemens V64.3 gas turbines. As part of a lifetime extension and modernization upgrade, Siemens Energy replaced conventional turbine vanes with 3D-printed ones. Phase 1 focused on the reproduction of the vanes, while in phase 2 improved, re-designed vanes will be installed. The initial phase already brought remarkable results: The vanes are characterized by high accuracy and show an excellent operational behavior after nearly 8,000 EOHs. The new generation of vanes, that will be installed in June 2021, have an advanced air cooling design, that can contribute to increased efficiency and decreased emissions. Industrialized swirler production Production of more than 1,000 gas turbine swirlers per year with qualified industrial production process. Lead time for critical component reduced by 20%, with reduced post-processing by 80%. Optimized design for AM enables part consolidation from 10 pieces to one single piece. Read more Long-lasting success 3D-printed gas turbine burners have been “on duty” for more than 8,000 operating hours in E.ON’s plant, which provides electrical energy and steam for a potash mine. The burners were manufactured in Finspång, Sweden. Each burner is manufactured in one piece, whereas they used to require 13 individual parts and 18 welds. "As an energy service provider, precision and durability of our turbines are absolute necessities for us," says Niklas Lange, project manager at E.ON Energy Projects. "In our experience, additive manufacturing delivers this and even improves performance compared to older models.” Read more Milestone for steam turbines Siemens installed 3D-printed sealing rings on SST-300 steam turbines operating in India. The 3D-printed parts are two oil sealing rings used in keeping oil separate from steam inside the steam turbine using pressurized air. Siemens engineered, designed and developed the parts as part of a collaborative project between Siemens experts in Germany, India, and Sweden. Read more First gas turbine with 3D printed parts Materials Solutions in Worcester, UK, produced 3D-printed burner components for a Siemens heavy-duty SGT-1000F gas turbine in a power plant in Brno in the southeast of the Czech Republic. The plant supplies district heating as well as electricity. The turbine’s operations are now supported by spare parts that no other large Siemens gas turbine before it has used in commercial operation. It has operated since 2016 without causing any forced outages. The Technologies Selective Laser Melting In use at Siemens Finspang and Materials Solutions in Worcester and Orlando Selective laser melting (SLM), also known as direct metal laser melting (DMLM) or laser powder bed fusion (LPBF), is a rapid prototyping, 3D printing, or additive manufacturing (AM) technique designed to use a high power-density laser to melt and fuse metallic powders together. SLM is often considered a subcategory of selective laser sintering (SLS). The SLM process has the ability to fully melt the metal material into a solid three-dimensional part unlike SLS. Laser Cladding In use at Siemens Gas and Power in Nuremberg Laser cladding is a form of surface coating that incorporates the use of lasers and a feeding mechanism to coat the substrate with a layer of desired metal or ceramic material. The laser melts the metal and coats the moving substrate with a fine layer. The feed metal is fully melted while the laser also transfers some of its energy to the substrate. This allows for the creation of a strong metallurgical bond between the substrate and the coating. WireArc In use at Siemens Gas and Power in Goerlitz Wire Arc Additive Manufacturing (WAAM) is a large-scale metal AM technology that uses an arc welding process to produce metal parts additively. Virtual Events Inside AM Sebastian Piegert, Technology Field Lead Additive Manufacturing, shared linsights on the Siemens Energy AM approach and strategy. AM - new opportunities for power plant operation Additive Manufacturing technology is enabling the transformation of energy systems. How AM contributes to a Decarbonized World Our webinar throws a light on the topic from different angles: Tobias Müller (E.ON) shares his experiences from user perspective, Markus Glasser (EOS) reports on the latest developments as a technology supplier and Vladimir Navrotsky and Markus Seibold give an overview on Siemens Energy’s experiences and solutions. Read more Additive Manufacturing at Siemens Energy Please fill out the form below and receive your download link! Read more October 2, 2018 6 min read Additive manufacturing: Better turbines thanks to 3D-printing May 10, 2021 7 min read Printing parts for gas turbines is about to get easy See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025