Battery energy storage systems | BESS Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Qstor™ BESS Flexible, scalable design for efficient energy storage.​ Energy storage is critical to decarbonizing the power system and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It's also essential to build resilient, reliable, and affordable electricity grids that can handle the variable nature of renewable energy sources like wind and solar. Battery Energy Storage Systems, or BESS, are rechargeable batteries that can store energy from different sources and discharge it when needed. BESS consist of one or more batteries and can be used to balance the electric grid, provide backup power and improve grid stability.​ Stay ahead with Siemens Energy long-term, flexible and sustainable Qstor™ innovations based on proven power electronics to shape future grids. What does Qstor™ bring to your system? Qstor™ is Siemens Energy's end-to-end solution for BESS, including Plant Controls, Enclosure (Core), Battery Management System, Digital Solutions and Services. From renewable energy producers, conventional thermal power plant operators and grid operators to industrial electricity consumers, and offshore drilling platforms or vessels, Qstor offers highly efficient and cost-effective energy storage solutions. With Qstor, you can even generate new revenue streams as it allows energy arbitrage or directly reduce your electricity bill via peak shaving. Redundant controls proven in different power plant applications including hybrids Meeting and exceeding standard cybersecurity requirements In-house analytics & insights to increase battery lifetime and efficiency Plant-wide expertise to optimize your system throughout its full lifecycle – including HV equipment, synchronous condensers, wind & gas turbines Safety and reliability-centered product and solution design Configurable plant footprint, including MV & HV equipment Siemens Energy quality – with 150+ years of engineering experience in electrifying the world Robust supply chain focused on sustainability Localized plant-wide services network with proven response times Explore the Future of Energy Storage with Siemens Energy's Qstor™ Controls The Qstor™ control system by Siemens Energy represents an holistic approach to battery management, facilitating real-time monitoring, accurate temperature regulation, and ongoing battery health maintenance. With a focus on functionality, this system incorporates automated cell balancing and fault detection among its suite of features, aimed at optimizing the performance and longevity of energy storage systems. Primary functions Power exchange and balancing. Islanding, blackstart, re-synchronisation. Primary & secondary frequency response. Voltage stability and reactive power. Electrical peak shaving. Integrated SCADA and engineering environment. Alarms, event reports and data archiving. Advanced functions Integration of thermal resources. Integration of hydrogen resources. Integration with Omnivise Energy Management for optimal unit commitment. Generation and load forecasting. Qstor™ Core – basis of an integrated solution Empowering sustainable energy systems with turnkey battery storage solutions, engineering excellence, service, and unwavering support for on-time, on-budget delivery. Siemens Energy provides systems for all customer needs combined under one roof. Discover Qstor™ Core by Siemens Energy - a modular, high-density battery cabinet that streamlines design and ensures safety with real-time monitoring. Experience easy installation and cost-efficient, durable energy solutions with Qstor™ Core. Unrivaled Lifetime Support We provide the optimized solutions for your applications with innovative, proven BESS technology including Qstor™ and other inhouse components. Siemens Energy offers services for any customer requirement regarding your power quality, including design studies, financing support, project management, assembly and commissioning, as well as after-sales services. Siemens Energy will be your experienced partner in all stages of the project. Trust on us, even before you know which solution you need – we’ll assist you based on strong experience. To guarantee an optimal customer experience, we use our BESS integration center to continuously test and improve our solutions, products and offerings. Ensure optimal profitability of your battery storage system throughout the lifetime of the plant At Siemens Energy, service excellence is at the core of our energy storage solutions. We prioritize continuous improvement to ensure your system operates reliably, providing expert maintenance and support tailored to your needs. Qstor™ Service Five service packages for Qstor™. Getting ready for the future The Shannonbridge plant is engineered to deliver a cutting-edge energy solution with the capacity to power approximately 9,500 households every day. By introducing around 4,000MWs of inertia, the plant plays a vital role in maintaining grid stability, an essential component in the integration of renewable energy sources. This large-scale battery storage capability allows for greater flexibility and reliability in the energy network, accommodating the ebb and flow of renewable energy generation, all controlled by a Qstor™ control system. The importance of grid scale battery storage is growing Traditional power plants have the chance to play an important role if they can supply flexible "power on demand" as well as grid stability services. Learn more about the potential of our Battery energy storage systems in this application by downloading our broschure: Battery energy storage in power plants brochure Get in touch with us for more information about our Battery Energy Storage Solutions (BESS) Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Corporate information U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025